# AssemblyBillNo.54-Committee on Growth andInfrastructure  

# CHAPTER  

AN ACT relating to energy efficiency; revising provisions relating to the energy efficiency of certain lights sold in this State; repealing obsolete provisions relating to the reduction of grid-based energy purchases for state-owned buildings; and providing other matters properly relating thereto.  

# Legislative Counsel's Digest:  

Existing law requires the Director of the Office of Energy to prepare a state energy reduction plan to reduce grid-based energy purchases for state-owned buildings by 20 percent by 2015. (NRS 701.215) Section 2 of this bill eliminates thisrequirement.  

Existinglaw alsorequires theDirector to establishaminimum standard of energyefficiencyfor lumens per watt ofelectricityconsumed that must be producedbygeneralpurposelights soldin thisState on and afterJanuary1, 2016. (NRS 701.260)Section 1 of this bill changes the term“general purpose light"to “general service lamp” and requires the Director to adopt by regulation: (1) a definition of “general service lamp"; and (2) a minimum standard of energy efficiency for general servicelamps sold in this State on or after January 1, 2020, which must meet or exceed 45 lumens per watt. Section1 also prohibits the sale, on or after January 1,2020,of general service lamps that do not meet or exceed the minimum standards of energy efficiency established by theDirector for lumens per wattofelectricityconsumed.  

EXPLANATION  Matter in bolded italics is new; matter between brackets [omitted material] is material to be omitted.  

# THEPEOPLEOFTHESTATE OFNEVADA,REPRESENTEDIN SENATEANDASSEMBLY,DOENACTASFOLLOWS:  

Section 1.NRS 701.260 is hereby amended to read as follows: 701.260 1. [Between January 1, 2012, and December 31, 2015, inclusive, no general purpose light may be sold in this State unless itproducesatleast25 lumensper watt of electricity consumed. 2.J On and after January 1, [2016,J 2020, no general [purpose lightl service lamp may be sold in this State unless it meets or exceeds the minimum standard of energy efficiency established by the Director pursuant to subsection [3] 2 for lumens per watt of electricity consumed. 3.1,when testedin accordancewith thetestproceduresfor general service lamps prescribed by 10 C.F.R. 430.23(gg).  

2.The Director shall adopt regulations to carry out the provisions of this section. The regulations must, without limitation:  

(a) Establish a minimum standard of energy_ efficiency_for lumens per watt of electricity consumed that must be produced by general [purpose lights] service lamps sold in this State on and after January 1, [2016.] 2020. The minimum standard of energy efficiency established by the Director must meet or exceed [25] 45 lumens per watt of electricity consumed.  

(b)Attempt to minimize the overall cost to consumers for general [purpose lighting,] service lamps, considering the needs of consumers relating to lighting, technological feasibility and anticipated product availability and performance.  

[4.  As used in]  

3. For thepurposes of thissection,theDirector shall define by regulation “general [purpose light" means lamps, bulbs, tubes or other devices that provide functional illuminationfor indoor or outdoor use.] service lamp.” The term[does] must not include "specialty lighting” or “lighting necessary to provide illumination for persons with special needs,” as defined by the Director by regulation.  

Sec. 2. NRS 701.215 is hereby repealed.  