# Enjoy 1,900 miles\* of free driving per year by earning a monthly $\$12$ incentive.\*\*  

The Off-Peak EV Charging Incentive program encourages Glendale EV drivers to charge their vehicles overnight on weekdays between $9{:}00~\mathsf{p.m}$ . and $12{:}00~\mathsf{p.m}$ . the next day and any time on the weekend in exchange for a monthly incentive of $\$12$ . Any battery electric or plug-in hybrid vehicle using a Level 2 charger at home (including apartments and condos) is eligible to participate in this program, and customers can enroll multiple EVs.  

Incentives are paid out yearly every June. You have the option to receive payments through PayPal, Venmo, or a paper check.  

# To enroll in the program you will need to:  

Have an active Glendale Water and Power residential electric account   
Charge your electric vehicle using a Level 2 charger or 240-volt charging cable Charge at home for at least 6 full hours per month during off-peak periods (9:00 p.m. to 12:00 p.m. on weekdays or anytime on weekends)  

There are times when you may have an urgent need to charge your EV. With the Off-Peak EV Charging Incentive, you may charge up to three times each month outside of the periods listed above without losing your incentive for that month.  

Incentives are calculated monthly and paid once per calendar year. You may choose to receive the incentive via PayPal, Venmo, or check. Electronic payments can only be issued to the email address (PayPal) or phone number (Venmo) provided on your application.  

# Be sure to have this information handy to enroll:  

√ Glendale Water and Power account number   
$\checkmark$ Vehicle identification number (VIN) A picture of your vehicle's charging timer or smart charger scheduled programmed to charge overnight (between 9 p.m. and 12 p.m. the next day) EV Charger make, model and serial number (optional)  

We recommend starting the application on a mobile device or tablet so that you can take the picture while completing you application.  

# Two ways to participate:  

If you charge your EV at home, and the electricity used appears on your electric bill - we verify your charging using your home’s electric smart meter  

If you charge at home, but use a shared charger or the electricity used does not appear on your electric bill - we verify your charging using data from your car (called telematics)  

# S T A R T  A P P L I C A T I O N  

If you have already enrolled, you can access the Customer Portal here.   
You can enroll additional EVs to your account through the Customer Portal.  

# C U S T O M E R  P O R TA L  

$^{\star_{1}},900$ free miles based on 3 miles/kWh, at \$0.2204/kWh (weighted average of L-1-A residential rate). Actual results will vary.   
\*\*Monthly incentive increased from $\$8$ to $\$12$ per EV on July 1, 2023. 855-545-0320   |   gwp@sagewell.com Privacy Policy |Terms and Conditions   
© 2024 Sagewell, Inc. Bring Your Own Charger® is a registered trademark of Sagewell, Inc.   
Glendale Water and Power logo and other copyrighted materials Glendale Water and Power  