# Assembly Bill No.383-Assemblymen Watts, Brown-May; and C.H. Miller  

# CHAPTER  

CT relating to energy; requiring the Director of the Office of Energy to adopt standards of energy efficiency for certain appliances; prohibiting the sale, lease, rental or installation of certain new appliances that are not in compliance with energy efficiency standards; authorizing the Director to adopt standards of  energy efficiency  for  certain additional appliances;requiring the Director to adopt regulations establishing a procedure for a consumer to apply for a delay in the implementation of a standard of energy efficiency for certain appliances; requiring a manufacturer to submit a certification for certain appliances prior to sale; authorizing the Director to take certain actions to investigate possible violations; establishing a civil penalty for violations; authorizing the adoption of appliance standards to facilitate the implementation of flexible demand technology; and providing other matters properly relating thereto.  

# Legislative Counsel's Digest:  

Sections 2-30 of this bill establish definitions for terms related to the energy efficiencyof appliances.  

Section 3i of this bill requires the Director of the Office of Energy to adopt regulationsestablishingminimumstandardsofenergyefficiencyforcertain appliances sold in thisState and methods for verifying whether appliances comply with those standards.Section31prohibits,after certain dates,the sale,lease,rental or installation of a new appliance that does notmeet the standards for energy efficiency_adopted by the Director. Section 31 prescribes minimum standards of energy efficiency which the standards of energy efficiency adopted by the Director mustmeetorexceed.  

Section 32 of this bill authorizes the Director, if certain findings are made, to adopt standards of energy efficiency for appliances other than the appliances for which standards of energy efficiency are specifically required to be adopted by this bill. Section 32 prohibits, after certain dates, the sale,lease, rental or installation of a new appliance that does not meet the standards for energy efficiency adopted by the Director pursuant to that section.  

Section 32.5 of this bill requires the Director to adopt regulations establishing a procedure for a consumer to apply to the Director to delay by not more than 1 year the implementation of a standard of energy efficiency for an appliance. Section 32.5 authorizes the Director to grant such a request if the consumer has set forth sufficient evidence that the requirement to procure an appliance that meets the established standard would impose an unreasonable burden on consumers in this State.  

Section 34 of this bill requires amanufacturer,before an appliance is made availableforsale,lease orrentin thisState,tosubmit totheDirector acertification for the appliance demonstrating that theappliance complies with theenergy efficiency standards establishedby theDirector.Section34requires amanufacturer toensurethat anew appliancethathasreceiveda certificationdemonstrating thatit complies with the minimum standards of energy efficiency includes a mark, label or tag at the time of sale or installation identifying the appliance as a certified appliance.Section 34 requires the Director to adopt regulations governing the certification of appliances and the labeling of certified appliances.  

Section35 of thisbill authorizes theDirector toinvestigate complaints concerning allegedviolations of theprovisions of thisbill.Section35establishes a civil penalty for violations of the provisions of this bill and authorizes the Attorney General to institute a civil action against a manufacturer, distributor, retailer or installerforsuchviolations.  

Section 36 of this bill authorizes the Director to adopt regulations to carry out the provisions of this bill and requires the Director, in designing such regulations, to attempt to minimize the cost to consumers for appliances.  

Section 37 of this bill authorizes the Director to adopt standards for appliances and other provisions to facilitate the deployment of flexible demand technologies.  

Section 38 of this bill excludes certain appliances from the provisions of this bill.  

EXPLANATION  Matter in bolded italics is new; matter between brackets [omitted material] is material to be omitted.  

# THEPEOPLEOFTHESTATEOFNEVADA,REPRESENTEDIN SENATEANDASSEMBLY,DOENACTASFOLLOWS:  

Section 1. Chapter 701 of NRS is hereby amended by adding thereto the provisions set forth as sections 2 to 38, inclusive, of this act.  

Sec.2. As used in sections 2 to 38,inclusive,of this act, unless the context otherwise requires,the words and terms defined in sections 3 to 30,inclusive, of this act have the meanings ascribedtotheminthosesections.  

Sec.3. “Air purifier" means an electric, cord-connected, portable appliance with the primary function of removing particulate matter from the air and which can be moved from roomtoroom.  

Sec.4. "Cold only water cooler” means a water cooler that dispensescoldwateronly. Sec. 5."Cold-temperature fluorescent lamp" means fluorescent lamp that: 1. Is not a compact fluorescent lamp; 2.Is specifically designed to operate at temperatures as low as-20 degreesFahrenheitwhen usedwith a ballast conforming to the requirements of Standard Nos.C78.81 and C78.901 of the AmericanNationalStandardsInstitute;and 3. Is expressly designated as a cold-temperature fluorescent lampbothinmarkingsonthelampandinmarketingmaterials, including, without limitation, catalogs, sales literature or promotionalmaterials.  

Sec.6. "Commercial dishwasher" means amachine designed to clean and sanitize plates, pots, pans, glasses, cups, bowis, utensils and trays by applying sprays of detergent solution, with or without blasting media granules, and a sanitizing rinse, and which is distributed forindustrial orcommercial use.  

Sec.7. "Commercial fryer" means an appliance, including, without limitation,a cooking vessel,in which:  

1. Oil is placed to such a depth that the cooking food is essentially supported by displacement of thecooking fluidrather than by thebottomof thevessel.  

2.Heat is delivered to the cooking fluid by means of an immersed electric element or band-wrapped vessel for electric fryers or by heat transfer from gas burners through either the walls of thefryer or through tubes passing through the cooking fluidforgasfryers.  

Sec. 8. "Commercial hot-food holding cabinet":  

1.Means a heated,fully enclosed compartment with one or more solid or transparent doors designed to maintain the temperatureofhotfood thathasbeencookedusing a separate appliance.  

2.Does not includeheated glass merchandizing cabinets, drawerwarmersorcook-and-holdappliances.  

Sec.9. "Commercial oven"means a chamber designed for heating, roasting or baking food by conduction, convection, radiation or electromagnetic energy and which is distributed for industrialorcommercialuse.  

Sec. 10. "Commercial steam cooker":  

1. Means a device_ with one or more food steaming compartments in which the energy in the steam is transferred to thefoodby directcontact.  

2. Includes, without limitation, countertop models, wallmounted models and floormodels mounted on a stand,pedestal or cabinet-stylebase.  

Sec.11. "Compensation" means money or any other thing of value, regardless of form, received by a person for services rendered.  

Sec. 12. "Computer":  

1. Means a device that performs logical operations and processes data and is composed of,at a minimum:  

(a) A central processing unit to perform operations or, if no central processing unit is present,then the device must function as a client gateway to a server and the server acts as a computational central processingunit;  

(b）The ability to support user input devices such as a keyboard,mouse ortouchpad; and (c) An integrated display screen or the ability to support an external display screentooutput information.  

2.Includes both stationary and portable units,and includes, without limitation, a desktop computer, portable allin-one computer, notebook computer, mobile gaming system,highexpandability computer, small-scale server, thin client or workstation. 3. Does not include a tablet, game console, television, small computer device, server other than a small-scale server or an industrial computer. Sec. 13. "Computer monitor": 1. Means an analog or digital device of diagonal screen size not less than 17 inches and not more than 61 inches, that has a pixel density of more than 5,oo0 pixels per square inch and that is designed primarily for the display_of computer generated signals for viewing by one person in a desk-based environment and which is composed of a display screen and associated electronics. 2. Does not include: (a)Displays with integrated or replaceable batteries designed to support primary operation without alternating current mains or external direct current power, including, without limitation, electronic readers, mobile phones, tablets and battery-powered digital frames; or (b)A television or signage display. Sec.14. "Cook and cold water cooler" means a water cooler that dispenses both cold water and room-temperature water. Sec.15. “Decorative gas fireplace”means a vented fireplace, including, without limitation, an appliance that is freestanding, recessed or zero clearance or a gas fireplace insert, that is: 1. Fueled by natural gas or propane; 2. Marked for decorative use only; and 3. Not equipped with a thermostat or intended for use as a heater. Sec. 15.5. "Distributor" means a person: 1.Whose primary business is the wholesale distribution of commercialgoodsforresale; 2. Who maintains an inventory of commercial goods for resale; 3.Whohas theright tosell or distributecommercial goodsin this State for resale to retailers or other resellers or to an industrialorcommercialmanufacturer;and  

Who conducts business in this State.  

Sec. 16. "Electric vehicle supply equipment": 1.Means the conductors, including, without limitation, the   
ungrounded, grounded and equipment-grounding conductors, the   
electricvehicle connectors,theattachmentplugs and all other   
fittings,devices,oweroutletsorapparatuses,installed specifically   
forthepurpose of delivering energyfromthepremiseswiringto   
the electric vehicle. 2. Does not include conductors, connectors and fittings that   
arepart ofavehicle. Sec.17. “Flexible demand" means the capability to schedule,   
shift or curtail the electrical demand of a customer of a utility   
through direct action by the customer or through action by a third   
party, the utility or a grid-balancing authority, with the consent of   
the customer. Sec. 18. "Gas fireplace” means a decorative gas fireplace or   
a heating gas fireplace. Sec. 19. “Heating gas fireplace” means a vented fireplace,   
including, without limitation, an appliance that is freestanding,   
recessed or zero clearance or a gas fireplace insert,that is: 1. Fueled by natural gas or propane; and 2.Not a decorative gas fireplace. Sec. 20. “High color rendering index fluorescent lamp"   
means a fluorescent lamp with a coior rendering index of 87'or   
more that is not a compact fluorescent lamp. Sec.21. “Hot and cold water cooler" means a water cooler   
that dispenses both hot and cold water and which may or may not   
dispenseroom-temperaturewater. Sec. 22. "Impact-resistant fluorescent lamp" means   
fluorescent lamp that: 1.Is not a compact fluorescent lamp; 2.Has a coating or equivalent technology that is compliant   
withStandard No.51oftheAmericanNationalStandards   
Institute and is designed to contain the glass if the glass envelope   
of the lamp is broken; and 3.Is 'designated and marketed for the intended application   
with: (a) The designation on the lamp packaging; and (b)Marketingmaterials that identifythelampasbeingimpact  
resistant,shatter-resistant, shatterproof or shatter-protected. Sec. 23. “Industrial'air purifier" means an indoor_ air  
cleaning device manufactured,advertised,marketed,labeled and   
used solely for industrial use and that is marketed solely through  

industrialsupplyoutletsorbusinesses andprominentlylabeled as follows:“Solely forindustrialuse.Potentialhealthhazard:emits Ozone."  

Sec.23.3. "Installer"means apersonengagedin_the attachment of a regulated appliance or an applianceforwhich the Directorhasadopted aminimumstandardofenergyefficiency pursuant tosection 32of this act thattheinstallerhaspurchased or been contracted toattach to a structure by means of the electrical,plumbingorventilationsystemofthestructure.  

Sec.23.7. "Manufacturer” means a person who makes new products by hand or machine.  

Sec.24. "New" means that an appliance has not previously beensold toan end user.  

Sec.25. "On-demand"meansawatercooler thatheatswater as it is requested, and which may take a few minutes to deliver hot water.  

Sec.26. "Portable electric spa" means a factory-built electric spa or hot tub which may or may not include any combination of integral controls, water heating or water-circulating equipment.  

Sec. 27. "Regulated appliance'" includes the following appliances:  

12345678 An air purifier that is not an industrial air purifier;   
A cold-temperature fluorescent lamp;   
A commercialdishwasher;   
A commercial fryer;   
Acommercial hot-foodholdingcabinet;   
A commercial oven;   
A commercial steam cooker;   
A computer;   
9. A computer monitor;   
10. Electric vehicle supply equipment;   
A gas fireplace;   
A high color rendering index fluorescent lamp;   
An impact-resistant fluorescent lamp;   
A portable electric spa;   
A residential ventilating fan; and 16. A water cooler.  

Sec.28. “Residential ventilating fan" means a ceiling or wall-mountedfan,orremotelymountedin-linefan,designedtobe used in a bathroom or utility room for the purpose of moving air from inside the building to outside the building.  

Sec.28.5. "Retailer" means apersonengagedinthe business of making retail sales ofregulated appliances or appliances for which theDirector has adopted a minimum standard of energy efficiency pursuant to section 32 of this act withinthisState.  

Sec. 29. "Storage-type":  

1.Means a water cooler that stores thermally conditioned water in a tank and makes such water available instantaneously.  

2. Includes point-of-use, dry storage compartment and bottled watercoolers.  

Sec.30. "Water cooler" means a freestanding device that consumes energy to cool or heat potable water.  

Sec. 31. 1. Not later than October 1,2022,the Director of the Office of Energy shall adopt regulations establishing minimum standards of energy efficiencyforregulated appliances andmethods for verifying whether a regulated appliance complies withthosestandards.  

2. On and after July 1,2023,a new regulated appliance may not be sold,leased orrentedin thisState,or offeredfor sale,lease or rent in this State,unless it meets or exceeds the minimum standardsofenergyefficiency_establishedbytheDirector pursuant to subsection 1.If theDirector amends theregulations adoptedpursuant to subsection1to establish morestringent standards of energy.efficiency for regulated appliances,the Director shall establish an effective date for such amended regulationswhichmustbenotearlierthan365daysafterthedate onwhich theamendedregulationsarefiledwiththeSecretaryof StatepursuanttoNRS233B.070.  

3. On and after January 1, 2024, a new regulated appliance may not be instaled for compensation in this State unless it meets or exceeds theminimum standards ofenergy efficiencyestablished by theDirectorpursuant to subsection1.if theDirector amends the regulations adopted pursuant to subsection 1 to establish more stringentstandardsof energyefficiencyfornewregulated appliances,beginning 1 year after the amended regulations are filed with the Secretaryof Statepursuant to NRS 233B.070,it shall be unlawful to instail for compensation in this State a new regulated appliance that does not meet or exceed the more stringentstandards ofenergy efficiency adopted by theDirector.  

4.The minimum standards of energy efficiency for regulated appliances adopted by the Director pursuant to subsection 1 must meetorexceedthefollowingstandards:  

(a) An air purifier which is not an industrial air purifier must meet thefollowingrequirements as measuredin accordancewith version 2.0 of the “ENERGY STAR Product Specification for  

-8- Room Air Cleaners"adopted by theUnited States Environmental Protection Agency: (1) The clean air delivery rate for smoke must be not less than 30 cubic feet per minute; (2) For models with a clean air delivery rate for smoke that is less than 100 cubic feet per minute,the clean air delivery rate per watt for smoke must be not less than 1.7 cubic feet per minute; (3)For models with a clean air delivery rate for smoke that is100ormore but less than150 cubicfeet perminute,the clean air delivery rate per watt for smoke must be not less than 1.9 cubic feetperminute; (4)For models with a clean air delivery rate for smoke that is150ormore cubicfeet perminute,the cleanair delivery rateper watt for smoke must be not less than 2.0 cubic feet per minute; (5) For ozone-emitting models, the measured ozone must be not more than 50 parts per billion; (6)For models with a wireless fidelity network connection enabled by default when shipped, the energy consumed when in partial on mode power must be not more than 2 watts; and (7) For models_without a_wireless fidelity network connectionnabledbydefaultwhenshipped,thenergyconsumed when in partial on mode must be not more than 1 watt. (b)Commercial dishwashers includedin the scope ofyersion 2.0 of the “ENERGY STAR Program Requirements Product Specification for Commercial Dishwashers" must meet the eligibilitycriteria of thatspecification. (c) Commercial fryers included in the scope of version 2.0 of the “ENERGY'STARProgramRequirementsProduct Specification for Commercial Fryers" must meet the criteria of that specification. (d) Commercial hot food holding cabinets included in the scope of version 2.oof the “ENERGY STAR Program Requirements Product Specification for Commercial Hot Food Holding Cabinets” must meet the criteria of that specification. (e) Commercial ovens included in the'scope of version 2.2 of “ENERGYSTARProgramRequirements Requirements Product Specification for Commercial Ovens" must meet the criteria of that specification. fCommercial steam cookers included in the scope of yersion 1.2of the“ENERGY STAR ProgramRequirements Product Specification for Commercial Steam Cookers" must meet the criteria of that specification.  

(g）Computersand computermonitors must meet the requirements set forth in section 1605.3(v) of Title 20 of the California Code of Regulations as in effect on January 1, 2020, andthetestproceduresforcomputersandcomputermonitors adopted by the Director must bein accordancewith the testing methodprescribedinsection1604(v)ofTitle20of theCalifornia Code of Regulations as in effect on January 1, 2020, except that theDirectormayelecttoamend thetestproceduretoreflect changestosection1604(v)ofTitle20of theCaliforniaCodeof RegulationsthatoccurafterJanuary1,2020. (h)Electric vehicle supply equipment included in the scope of version 1.0 of the“ENERGY STAR Program Requirements for Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment”must meet the eligibility criteriaofthatspecification. (i)Gasfireplacesmust: (1) Be capable of automatically extinguishing any pilot flame when the main gas burner flame is extinguished. (2) Prevent any ignition source for the main gas burner flame from operating continuously for more than7days. (3) If the gas fireplace is a heating gas fireplace, have a fireplace efficiency greater than or equal to50 percent when tested inaccordancewithStandardNo.P.4.1-15oftheCanadian Standards Association, “Testing Method for Measuring Annual FireplaceEfficiency."  

(i) High color rendering index fluorescent lamps, cold temperature fluorescent lamps and impact-resistant fluorescent lamps must meet the minimum efficacy requirements contained in 10C.F.R. $\S$ 430.32(n)(4),asin effect on January 1,2020,as measured in accordance with 10'C.F.R. Part 430, subpart B, Appendix R, UniformTest Method for Measuring Average Lamp Efficacy (LE),Color Rendering Index (CRI),and Correlated Color Temperature (CCT) of Electric Lamps,” as in effect on January1,2020.  

(k)Portable electric spas must meet the requirements of the "AmericanNational StandardforPortableElectricSpaEnergy Efficiency,"ANSI/APSP/ICC14-2019of theAssociation ofPool andSpaProfessionals.  

(l)In-line residential ventilating fans must have a fan motor efficacy of not less than 2.8 cubic feet per minute per watt.  

(m)Residentialventilating fans other than in-lineresidential ventilating fans must have a fan motor efficacy of not less than 1.4 cubic feet per minute per watt for airflows less than 90 cubic feet per minute and not less than 2.8 cubic feet per minute per watt for other airflowswhentestedin accordancewithHVIPublication 916,“HVI Airflow Test Procedure,"of the Home Ventilating Institute.  

(n)Water coolers included in thescope ofversion 2.oof the "ENERGY STAR Program Requirements Product Specification for Water Coolers"must have an on mode with no water draw energy consumption of the following. yalues as measured in accordancewith thetestrequirementsof that specification:  

(1) Not more than 0.16 kilowatt-hours per day for cold only water coolers and cook and cold water coolers; (2) Not more than 0.87 kilowatt-hours per day for storagetypehot and coldwatercoolers;and (3) Not more_than 0.i8 kilowatt-hours per day for ondemandhotandcoldwatercoolers.  

Sec. 32. 1. The Director may adopt regulations establishing minimum standards of energy efficiencyfornew appliances other thanregulated appliances and methods foryerifyingwhether such an appliance complies with those standards upon a finding that the adoption of such standards would serve to promote energy or water conservation in thisState and would be cost effective for consumers whopurchase and usesuch new appliances.  

2.TheDirectorshall establishaneffectivedatefor regulations adopted pursuant to_ subsection 1 which must be not earlier than365days after thedate onwhichtheregulations are filedwiththeSecretaryofStatepursuant toNRS233B.070.  

3.On and after the effective date of any regulations adopted pursuant to subsection 1,a new appliance may not be sold,leased orrented in this State or offeredforsale,lease or rent in thisState unless itmeets or exceeds theminimum standards of energy efficiency established by theDirector pursuant tosubsection 1.  

4.Beginning 1 year after the effective date of any regulations adopted pursuant tosubsection1,it shall beunlawful to install for compensation in this State a new appliance that does not meet or exceed the standards of energy efficiency adopted by the Director pursuanttosubsection1.  

Sec. 32.5.1.The Director shall adopt regulations establishing a procedure whereby a consumer may apply to the Directortodelaytheimplementationofaminimumstandardof energyefficiency adoptedpursuant to section 31 or32of this act for a periodofnotmorethan1year.TheDirectormaygrant a requesttodelaytheimplementationofaminimumstandardof energy efficiency adopted pursuant tosection31 or32of this act if theDirectordetermines thattheconsumerhassetforthsufficient evidence that a requirement to procure a product that conforms to the minimum standard would impose an unreasonable burden on consumersinthisState.  

2. As used in this section, “unreasonable burden" includes, without limitation, fewer than three manufacturers having a product that conforms to theminimum standard available for purchase.  

Sec. 33. (Deleted by amendment.)  

Sec. 34. 1. Before a new regulated appliance is made available for sale, lease or rent in this State, the manufacturer of theregulated applianceshall submit to theDirector a certification which demonstrates that theregulated appliance complies with the minimum standard of energy efficiency for that appliance adopted by theDirector pursuant to section 31 of this act.  

2.Before a new appliance for which the Director has adopted aminimumstandardofenergyefficiencypursuanttosection32of this act is made available for sale,lease or rent in this State,the manufacturer of the appliance shall submit to the Director a certificationwhichdemonstrates that theappliancecomplieswith theminimumstandardofenergyefficiencyforthatappliance adopted by theDirector pursuant to section 32 of this act.  

3.A manufacturer of regulated appliances or appliances for which the Director has adopted a minimum standard of energy efficiency pursuant to section 32of this act shall complywith such other requirements or submit such other information as the Directormay requireby regulation.  

4.The Director shall adopt regulations governing. the certification ofregulated appliancesor appliancesforwhich the Director has adopted a minimum standard of energy efficiency pursuant to section 32 of this act.In doing so,the Director shall coordinate with the certification programs of other states and federal agencies with similar standards of energy efficiency.  

5.A manufacturer shall ensure that, at the time of sale or installation, a new appliance for which the manufacturer has submitted a certificationpursuant to subsection1 or 2includes a mark, label or tag on the product and packaging of the appliance which identifies the appliance as meeting the standards of energy efficiency established by theDirector pursuantto sections31 and 32 of this act. The Director shall adopt regulations governing the identificationofcertified appliancesthroughtheinclusionof a mark, label or tag, coordinating to the greatest practical extent with thelabelingprograms of other states andfederal agencies with equivalent standards of energy efficiency. The Director shall permit the use of existing marks, labels or tags which connote compliance with the_standards of energy efficiency adopted pursuant tosections 31and32of this act.  

Sec. 35.1.The Directormay investigate complaints received concerning alleged violations of sections 2 'to38, inclusive, of this act and may report any_ alleged violation of sections 2 to 38,inclusive,of this act which the Director verifies or discovers afterinvestigation to theAttorney General.  

2. Whenever it appears that a manufacturer, distributor, retailer or installer has violated or is violating the provisions of sections 2 to 38, inclusive, of this act, the Attorney General may institute a civil action in any district court of' this State for injunctiverelief torestrain theviolation and for theassessment andrecoveryofacivilpenalty.  

3. Any manufacturer, distributor, retailer or installer who violates any of the provisions of sections 2 to 38,inclusive,of this act must, for a first time violation, be issued a warning and, for any subsequentviolation,isliableto theState for a civil penalty of:  

(a)For the first time a civil penalty is assessed, not more than \$100for eachday of violationand foreach act ofviolation.  

(b) For any subsequent assessment of a civil penalty, not more than $\$500$ foreach day of violation and for each act of violation.  

4. Nothing in this section or in sections 2 to 38,inclusive,of this act shall be construed to require a city or county to take any action or to enforce the provisions of sections 2 to 38, inclusive,of thisact.  

Sec.36. The Director may adopt such regulations as are necessary to carry out the provisions of sections 2 to 38,inclusive, of this act. In designing such regulations, the Director shall attempt to minimize the overall cost to consumers for regulated appliances and appliancesforwhichtheDirectorhasadopteda minimum standard of energy efficiency pursuant to section 32 of this act,considering the needs of consumers related to appliances, technologicalfeasibilityandanticipatedproductavailabilityand performance.  

Sec. 37. 1. The Director may adopt by regulation standards for appliances and other provisions whichare necessaryand convenient to facilitate the deployment offlexible demand technologies, including, without limitation, regulations relating to the labeling ofappliancesincorporatingflexibledemand technologies to promote the use of such appliances. Any such regulations must be based on feasible and attainable efficiencies  

orfeasibleimprovements thatwill enable applianceoperations to   
bescheduled, shifted or curtailed to reduce emissions of   
greenhouse gases associated with electricity generation. 2.TheDirector shall establish an effective date for   
regulations adopted pursuant to subsection 1 which must be not   
earlier than 365 days after the date on which the regulations are   
filed with the Secretary of State pursuant to NRS 233B.070. 3. In establishing standards for appliances pursuant to   
subsection1,theDirectorshall: (a) Consider the reliability and cybersecurity protocols of the   
National Institute of Standards and Technology of the United   
States Department of Commerce, or other cybersecurity protocols   
that are equally or more protective and adopt, at minimum, the   
NorthAmericanElectricReliabilityCorporation Corporation Critical   
Infrastructure Protection Standards, as those standards exist on   
the effective date of this act. (b) Consult with the Public Utilities Commission of Nevada   
and electric utilities to better align the flexible demand appliance   
standardswithdemandresponseprogramsandto incentivize the   
deployment of flexible demand appliances. 4.Flexibie demand appliance standards adopted pursuant to   
subsection 1 must prioritize: (a)Appliances that can more conveniently have their electrical   
demandcontrolledbyload-managementtechnology andthird  
party load-management programs. (b)Appliances with ioad-management technology options that   
are readily available. ()Appliances that have a user-friendly interface and follow a   
straightforward setup_ and connection process, such as remote   
setupbymeans of anInternetwebsiteor application. (d)Appliances with load-management technology options that   
follow simple standards for third-party direct operation of the   
appliances. (e) Appliances that are interoperable or open source. Sec.38. The provisions of sections 2 to 38, inclusive, of this   
act,and any regulations adopted pursuant thereto,do not apply to: 1..A new appliance manufactured in this State and sold   
outside of thisState. 2:,A' new appliance sold at wholesale in this State for final   
retailsaleoutsideofthisState. 3. An appliance installed in a mobile home or manufactured   
home at the time of construction.  

4.An appliance designed expressly for installation and use in a recreationalvehicle,as defined in NRS 482.101. Sec. 39. This act becomes effective on July 1, 2021.  

20 21  