# Commercial EV Charging Station Rebate Application  

GWPrebates@GlendaleCA.gov 818-551-3080  

Rebates for commercial or multi-family building customers to install Level II or Level III EV charging stations. Rebate is for $\$50,000$ or $50\%$ of the project cost (whichever is less). A rebate of $\$75,000$ or $75\%$ of the project cost (whichever is less) is available if the project meets at least one of the criteria on the Additional Criteria section of the application.  

# CUSTOMER INFORMATION  

Name on GWP Account: GWP Account Number: Address: Email address: Phone Number:  

# PROJECT INFORMATION  

NE  □ I am reserving a rebate and have not yet completed the project     □ Project has been completed at the time of this application  

LOCATION    □ Commercial property     □ Multi-family building  

COST (estimate if project is not complete):  _\$_ REQUESTED REBATE AMOUNT: _\$  

# CHARGER INFORMATION  

EV Charger Brand: EV Charger Model: Max power output (kW): Total number of Ports: Are stations networked? □ Yes   □ No  

EV Charger Brand: EV Charger Model: Max power output (kW): Total number of Ports: Are stations networked? □ Yes   □ No  

# CONTRACTOR INFORMATION  

Name of contractor performing installation: Contractor License #: Contractor business address:  

PAYMENT     □ Issue payment to customer named on GWP account     □ Issue payment to contractor above \* Provide a W9 form for the party selected above. W9 form for contractor must match the contractor information entered abov  

# ADDITIONAL CRITERIA  

# If your project meets one of the criteria below, you are eligible to for a rebate of $\$75,000$ or $75\%$ of the project cost (whichever is less). Select all that apply.  

□ Project is in an income-qualified housing structure that serves at least $80\%$ of low-income residents as identified by the State of Cal □ Project is in a disadvantaged community as designated by the California EPA at CalEPA.ca.gov/envjustice/ghginvest/ □ Project is at a non-profit organization recognized as having a tax-exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service.   
□ Project has at least one EV charging station that is publicly accessible.   
□ Project includes at least one DC fast charger with a power output of 50 kW or greater.  

I certify that the information I provided on this application is correct and that I have read the program guidelines and terms & conditions on the back of this application and understand and agree to them. If you provided your email address, we will only use it to contact you about the status of your application.  

Signature:  

# The following documents are required to be submitted with this application:  

• Specification sheet for EV chargers   
• W9 Form for party receiving rebate payment.   
• Proof of Additional Criteria if applicable (see Additional Criteria section on the $1^{\mathsf{s t}}$ page of the application)  

# Send application and all supporting documents to:  

# The following are to be provided after the project is completed:  

• Copy of paid invoices for all EV chargers and installation   
• Photograph of all installed EV chargers   
• Copy of the final building permit & electrical permit from the City of Glendale’s Building & Safety Department  

Email: GWPrebates@GlendaleCA.gov Fax: 1-818-240-6492  

Mail:   
Glendale Water & Power   
Attn: Electric Vehicle Charging Station Rebate Program   
141 N. Glendale Ave., Room 114A   
Glendale, CA 91206  

# PROGRAM TERMS & CONDITIONS  

1. Applicant must be a GWP customer with an active GWP account on an L2, LD2, or PC1 electric rate.  

2. Application must be signed, dated, and contain ALL supporting documentation.   
3. GWP is not responsible for items lost or destroyed in the mail or by email.   
4. Applications must be submitted no later than six months from the installation date and are accepted on a first-come, first served basis.   
5. Customers may reserve a rebate if their project is not completed. Customers that reserve a rebate must complete the project within 4 months of the reservation date.   
6. Rebates are issued in the form of a reimbursement check.   
7. Rebates are limited to the lesser of $\$50,000$ or $50\%$ of the total project cost, or the lesser of $\$75,000$ or $75\%$ of the total project cost if the customer meets at least one of the criteria in the Additional Criteria section of this application.   
8. The rebate is for EV chargers that utilize the SAE J1772, CHAdeMO, Combined Charging System (CCS), or Tesla Connector, and are UL or equivalent listed.   
9. Final City of Glendale Building & Safety Division permits for the project must be submitted once the project is completed.   
10. Chargers that are portable, plug-in, resold, rebuilt, received from warranty insurance claims, or won as a prize are not eligible for rebates under this program.   
11. GWP will evaluate effectiveness of rebate and may adjust the amount if necessary, and as the budget allows.   
12. This program may be modified or terminated without notice.  

# FOR GWP OFFICE USE ONLY  

# Documents  

# Additional Criteria  

□ Approved □ Denied  

□ Invoice for chargers and installation   
□ Photo of chargers   
□ Charger spec sheet   
□ Final Building Permit   
□ Final Electrical Permit   
□ W9 form   
□ Low-Income Building   
□ Disadvantaged Community   
□ Non-Profit   
□ Publicly Accessible   
□ DCFC  

Processed by: Date: Approved By: Date:  