# Electric Vehicles  

Electric Vehicles are no longer the future, and are here to stay. With more and more EVs being available to the general public, GWP is keeping up with this trend by offering various EV programs and services.  

# Why Go Electric?  

Electric vehicles have many benefits over traditional gasoline vehicles:  

EVs produce no emissions   
Fuel costs for electric vehicles are substantially lower than gas vehicles   
EVs are more fuel efficient than gas powered vehicles   
EVs are less expensive to maintain  

# GWP EV Programs  

# Residential EV Charging Station Rebate Program  

Standard Rebates  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Non- Networked charger</td><td>$200</td></tr><tr><td>Networked/wi fi charger</td><td>$599</td></tr><tr><td>With electric panel upgrade</td><td>Additional $800</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Rebates for Glendale Care (/government/departments/glendale-waterand-power/residential-customers/low-income-programs/glendalecare) Program Participants  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Non- Networked charger</td><td>$300</td></tr><tr><td>Networked/wi fi charger</td><td>$700</td></tr><tr><td>With electric panel upgrade</td><td>Additional $1,000</td></tr></table></body></html>  

This program provides rebates to residential customers who install an electric vehicle charging station at their home.  

# Commercial EV Charging Station Rebate  

This program provides rebates to commercial and multi-family building customers who install electric vehicle charging stations at their property. Base rebates are the lesser of $\$50,000$ or $50\%$ of the total project cost. Customers who meet one of the following criteria are eligible to receive the lesser of $\$75,000$ or $75\%$ of the total project cost:  

Projects in an income-qualified housing structure that serves at least $80\%$ of low-income residents as identified by the State of California   
Projects in a disadvantaged community as designated by the California EPA here.   
Projects at a non-profit organization recognized as having tax-exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service   
Projects that have at least one EV charging station that is publicly accessible.   
Projects that include at least one DC fast charger with a power output of 50 kW or greater.  

# Click here  

(/home /75578/638566528342430000) to view the  

# Electric Bicycle Rebate Program  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Standard Rebate</td><td>If Enrolled in Glendale Care Program</td></tr><tr><td>$300</td><td>$400</td></tr></table></body></html>  

This program provides a rebates to GWP residential electric customers or Glendale residents (with proof of residence) who purchase a new electric bicycle.  

Please review all applicable Terms and Conditions by downloading the Electric Bicycle Rebate Application (/home/showpublisheddocument/71839/638664170184000000).  

If you have questions about the program, please send an e-mail to GWPrebates@GlendaleCA.gov (mailto:GWPrebates@GlendaleCA.gov) or call 818-551-3080.  

# Electric Bicycles  

The California DMV describes electric bicycles as bicycles equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts. There are 3 classes of electric bicycles, all which qualify for a rebate:  

• Class 1 – A low speed pedal-assisted electric bicycle equipped with a motor which provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance when a speed of 20 mph is reached. • Class 2 – A low speed throttle-assisted electric bicycle equipped with a motor used exclusively to propel the bicycle and NOT capable of providing assistance when a speed of 20 mph is reached. • Class 3 – A low speed pedal-assisted electric bicycle equipped with a speedometer, and a motor which provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance when a speed of 28 mph is  

# Off-Peak EV Charging Incentive Program  

The Off-Peak EV Charging Incentive program encourages Glendale EV drivers to charge their vehicles overnight on weekdays between 9:00 p.m. and 12:00 p.m. and any time on the weekend in exchange for a monthly incentive of $\$12$ . All battery electric or plug-in hybrid vehicles are eligible to participate in this program.  

Click here (https://www.bringyourowncharger.com/gwp-home) for more  

# Other EV Incentives  

Click here (https://ev.glendalewaterandpower.com/incentives) to learn more about additional EV incentives and programs.  

# Electric Vehicle Buyer's Guide  

Our EV Buyer’s Guide makes it easy for you to learn about current EVs on the market and compare costs against traditional gasoline vehicles. You’ll also find information on incentives, home chargers, public charging stations, and EV dealers.  

Check out the guide at EV.GlendaleWaterAndPower.com (https://ev.glendalewaterandpower.com/)  

Charging Station Map   
Click here (https://ev.glendalewaterandpower.com/charging-stations) to view a map of charging station locations around you.  

# Glendale-owned Charging Station Prices:  

GWP has installed multiple charging stations throughout Glendale to serve EV drivers, with more planned in the near future. Below are the charging costs for these stations.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Level 3 City Owned Charging Station</td><td>$0.3359 per KWH</td></tr><tr><td>Level 2 City Owned Charging Station</td><td>$0.2033 per KWH</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Types of Charging Stations:  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Charging type Voltage</td><td></td><td>Range (miles) per hour of charging</td><td>Equipment required</td></tr><tr><td>Level 1</td><td>120V</td><td>5 miles*</td><td>None if plugged into your 120V socket - no installation required**</td></tr><tr><td>Level 2</td><td>240V</td><td>20-30 miles*</td><td>Hardwired or plug-in EV charging station. Hardwires charging stations require installation by a qualified electrician. Requires dedicated circuit from your panel. Available in residential and retail settings. **</td></tr><tr><td>Level 3</td><td>480V</td><td>150-200 miles*</td><td>Available only in retail settings. Currently requires separate plug than Level 1 & 2 charging.</td></tr></table></body></html>

\* Actual range depends on the vehicle, battery size, and charger used.  

\*\*Please ensure that the circuit breaker is properly sized so that it will not trip when you plug in your EV  

Contact City of Glendale's Building & Safety Department at 818-548-3200 for questions and information on how to start the installation of your electric vehicle charging station.  

# Frequently Asked Questions  

Q: Do I need to install a charging station at home?  

A: The charging station is only necessary if you desire to charge your EV at a faster rate.  You can charge your EV using the 120V socket which could take about 10 to 20 hours to fully charge your EV, depending on the car make and model.  

# Q: Is a second electric meter installed?  

A: No. As of December 15, 2016, GWP no longer requires a second EV sub-meter for EV charging stations.  

# Q: How much money can I save by driving an electric car?  

A: The amount you will save using electricity instead of gasoline will vary depending on many factors including type of vehicle, price of electricity, price of gas, and driving conditions.  