# Where Sustainability Meets Profitability  

Are you a small Connecticut manufacturer wanting to enhance energy efficiency and sustainability while boosting economic performance? Are your customers or investors asking about your ESG (Environmental , Social and Governance) commitment? GreenGain can help!  

# What is GreenGain?  

GreenGain provides small Connecticut manufacturing companies with training, funding and mentoring support. We help you identify simple ways to incorporate sustainability practices while improving economic gains, ensuring your business stays competitive in a rapidly evolving market and changing climate.  

# Who It's For  

The GreenGain program is designed for business owners, executives and department heads within small manufacturing companies. No previous knowledge or experience is required.  

# EXPERT TRAINING  

# IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT  

Skill-up with training sessions led by industry experts. Learn about decarbonization, ESG  

Participate in our corporate mentorship program and be matched with large  

reporting, green   
manufacturing, and more from larger manufacturers through case studies and guest   
speakers.  

manufacturers that will share their experiences and expertise to help you implement what you’ve learned.  

# FINANCIAL RESOURCES  

# EXTENSIVE NETWORKING  

Apply for matching funds up to \$25,000 through our voucher program to support energy efficiency equipment upgrades, renewable energy projects, carbon accounting software, energy audits, Ecovadis certification and more.  

Learn from other small manufacturers in a cohortlearning environment and leverage our partnerships to expand your professional network and gain valuable insights you can use to improve your business.  

# Program Partners  

# Sponsors  

# What You'll Learn  

What Is Sustainability in Manufacturing?   
How to Create a Business Case for Sustainability   
How and Why to Track Your Carbon Footprint   
How to Leverage Programs and Financial Incentives   
Best Practices & Lessons from Large Manufacturers   
Show Off Your Progress at our Completion Certificates & Celebration  

# Join Us Today  

Don’t miss out on this opportunity to transform your manufacturing operations for a sustainable and profitable future. For more information and to apply,  

APPLY NOW  

# © CT SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS COUNCIL 2025  

We acknowledge and pay deep respects to the Hammonassets, Mohegan, Paugussett, Pequonnock Pequot, Quinnipiac, Tunxis, and Wappinger people, and all of their descendants both past and present, who belong to the land on which this organization now resides.  