# 202ś Electric Lawnmower and Electric Lawncare Product Rebate Form  

Date Submitted:  

Please select how you want to receive your rebate: Check On-Bill Credit (N/A for commercial mowers)  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Call</td><td>Mail</td><td>Email</td></tr><tr><td>802-253-7215</td><td>Manager Regulatory Affairs Stowe Electric Department PO Box 190 Stowe, VT 05672</td><td>rebates@stoweelectric.com</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>StoweElectricAccount Holder'sName</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>StoweElectricAcct.#</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Phone#</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>EmailAddress</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>PurchaseDate</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Residential or Commercial</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">RetailerName: Address</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>ServiceAddress:</td><td>Mailing Address for Check:</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Manufacturer</td><td>Model No.</td><td>Serial No.</td></tr><tr><td>1.</td><td>1.</td><td>1.</td></tr><tr><td>2.</td><td>2.</td><td>2.</td></tr><tr><td>3.</td><td>3.</td><td>3.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Signature: Date: I certify that the information submitted is correct and I shall adhere to the terms and conditions of this  

rebate. I authorize Stowe Electric to confirm the information I submitted before receiving my rebate.  

# Self-Certifying Survey for Residential Customers  

Household Income Eligibility: The State of Vermont asks all distribution utilities to track annual household income in their service territory.  

I attest that my household income in 202Ś was at or below the level in the following table  

Annual household income limit based on household size   


<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td colspan="2">1</td><td colspan="2">2</td><td colspan="3">3</td><td colspan="2">4</td><td colspan="2">5</td></tr><tr><td>LowIncome</td><td>$57,300</td><td></td><td>$65,500</td><td></td><td>$73,700</td><td></td><td></td><td>$81,850</td><td></td><td>$88,400</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Moderate Income</td><td colspan="2">$86,000</td><td colspan="2">$98,400</td><td colspan="2">$110,600</td><td colspan="2">$122,800</td><td></td><td>$132,800</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Not Applicable</td><td colspan="3"></td><td colspan="2"></td></tr></table></body></html>  

Qualifying Rebates   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Ride on Commercial Mower</td><td>$1,000</td></tr><tr><td>RideonResidentialMower</td><td>$100</td></tr><tr><td>Residential LawncareProducts</td><td>$50</td></tr><tr><td>CommercialLawncare</td><td>$100</td></tr><tr><td>CommercialPushmower</td><td>$150</td></tr><tr><td>ResidentialPushmower</td><td>$50</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Terms and Conditions  

This rebate is available to customers of Stowe Electric for qualifying electric mowers or lawncare products purchased January 1, 202ś through December 31, 202ś.  

Residential Electriclawn mower battery must be at least 36 volt  

On-bill credit is not available for commercial mowers.  

For more information: Stowe Electric: 802-253-7215, rebates@stoweelectric.com, or https://www.stoweelectric.com/rebates.  

We will not endorse a manufacturer, product, system design, technology, or contractor. You must send Stowe Electric a copy of the invoice you received at the point of purchase showing the date of purchase and the model number and serial number of the product purchased.  

If the model number and serial number are not provided on your invoice form, then please refer to the faceplate on the mower unit(s) and send a picture of the faceplate attached to your rebate request.  

We will contact you directly with additional information requests. Otherwise, please allow 30 days from the date of receipt for us to mail your rebate check.  

Stowe Electric reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.  

By completing this form and accepting the rebate, you agree to SED sharing this information with the Vermont Department of Public Service and their contractors for the purpose of evaluating the statewide impacts of this program.  