# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2009 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, § 1123(b), Feb. 17, 2009, 123 Stat. 325, provided that: ‘‘The amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2008.’’  

Amendment by section 1142(b)(3) of Pub. L. 111–5 applicable to vehicles acquired after Feb. 17, 2009, see section 1142(c) of Pub. L. 111–5, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note under section 24 of this title.  

Amendment by section 1144(b)(2) of Pub. L. 111–5 applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2008, see section 1144(c) of Pub. L. 111–5, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note under section 24 of this title.  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2008 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 110–343, div. B, title II, $\S207(\mathrm{c})$ , Oct. 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 3840, provided that: ‘‘The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply to property placed in service after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 3, 2008], in taxable years ending after such date.’’  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2007 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 110–172, § 6(e), Dec. 29, 2007, 121 Stat. 2481, provided that:  

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 41, 45J, 4041, 4042, 4082, and 6430 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under section 6430 of this title] shall take effect as if included in the provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 [Pub. L. 109–58] to which they relate.  

‘‘(2) NONAPPLICATION OF EXEMPTION FOR OFF-HIGHWAY BUSINESS USE.—The amendment made by subsection (d)(3) [amending section 4041 of this title] shall apply to fuel sold for use or used after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 29, 2007].  

‘‘(3) AMENDMENT MADE BY THE SAFETEA–LU.—The amendment made by subsection (d)(2)(C)(ii) [amending section 4082 of this title] shall take effect as if included in section 11161 of the SAFETEA–LU [Pub. L. 109–59].’  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2005 AMENDMENT  

Amendment by section 402(k) of Pub. L. 109–135 effective as if included in the provision of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Pub. L. 109–58, to which such amendment relates, see section 402(m)(1) of Pub. L. 109–135, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2005 Amendments note under section 23 of this title.  

# EFFECTIVE DATE  

Pub. L. 109–58, title XIII, § 1342(c), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 1051, provided that: ‘‘The amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending sections 38, 55, 1016, and 6501 of this title] shall apply to property placed in service after December 31, 2005, in taxable years ending after such date.’’  

# SAVINGS PROVISION  

For provisions that nothing in amendment by Pub. L. 115–141 be construed to affect treatment of certain transactions occurring, property acquired, or items of income, loss, deduction, or credit taken into account prior to Mar. 23, 2018, for purposes of determining liability for tax for periods ending after Mar. 23, 2018, see section 401(e) of Pub. L. 115–141, set out as a note under section 23 of this title.  

# $\S30\mathbf{D}$ . New qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles  

# (a) Allowance of credit  

There shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal to the sum of the credit amounts determined under subsection (b) with respect to each new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle placed in service by the taxpayer during the taxable year.  

# (b) Per vehicle dollar limitation  

# (1) In general  

The amount determined under this subsection with respect to any new qualified plugin electric drive motor vehicle is the sum of the amounts determined under paragraphs (2) and (3) with respect to such vehicle.  

# (2) Base amount  

The amount determined under this paragraph is $\$2,500$ .  

# (3) Battery capacity  

In the case of a vehicle which draws propulsion energy from a battery with not less than 5 kilowatt hours of capacity, the amount determined under this paragraph is $\$417$ , plus $\$417$ for each kilowatt hour of capacity in excess of 5 kilowatt hours. The amount determined under this paragraph shall not exceed \$5,000.  

# (c) Application with other credits  

# (1) Business credit treated as part of general business credit  

So much of the credit which would be allowed under subsection (a) for any taxable year (determined without regard to this subsection) that is attributable to property of a character subject to an allowance for depreciation shall be treated as a credit listed in section 38(b) for such taxable year (and not allowed under subsection (a)).  

# (2) Personal credit  

For purposes of this title, the credit allowed under subsection (a) for any taxable year (determined after application of paragraph (1)) shall be treated as a credit allowable under subpart A for such taxable year.  

# (d) New qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle  

For purposes of this section—  

# (1) In general  

The term ‘‘new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle’’ means a motor vehicle—  

(A) the original use of which commences   
with the taxpayer, (B) which is acquired for use or lease by   
the taxpayer and not for resale, (C) which is made by a manufacturer, (D) which is treated as a motor vehicle for   
purposes of title II of the Clean Air Act, (E) which has a gross vehicle weight rating   
of less than 14,000 pounds, and $(\mathbf{F})$ which is propelled to a significant ex  
tent by an electric motor which draws elec  
tricity from a battery which— (i) has a capacity of not less than 4 kilowatt hours, and (ii) is capable of being recharged from an external source of electricity.  

# (2) Motor vehicle  

The term ‘‘motor vehicle’’ means any vehicle which is manufactured primarily for use on  

public streets, roads, and highways (not including a vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails) and which has at least 4 wheels.  

# (3) Manufacturer  

The term ‘‘manufacturer’’ has the meaning given such term in regulations prescribed by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for purposes of the administration of title II of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7521 et seq.).  

# (4) Battery capacity  

The term ‘‘capacity’’ means, with respect to any battery, the quantity of electricity which the battery is capable of storing, expressed in kilowatt hours, as measured from a 100 percent state of charge to a 0 percent state of charge.  

# (e) Limitation on number of new qualified plugin electric drive motor vehicles eligible for credit  

# (1) In general  

In the case of a new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle sold during the phaseout period, only the applicable percentage of the credit otherwise allowable under subsection (a) shall be allowed.  

# (2) Phaseout period  

For purposes of this subsection, the phaseout period is the period beginning with the second calendar quarter following the calendar quarter which includes the first date on which the number of new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles manufactured by the manufacturer of the vehicle referred to in paragraph (1) sold for use in the United States after December 31, 2009, is at least 200,000.  

# (3) Applicable percentage  

For purposes of paragraph (1), the applicable percentage is—  

(A) 50 percent for the first 2 calendar quarters of the phaseout period, (B) 25 percent for the 3d and 4th calendar quarters of the phaseout period, and (C) 0 percent for each calendar quarter thereafter.  

# (4) Controlled groups  

Rules similar to the rules of section 30B(f)(4) shall apply for purposes of this subsection.  

# (f) Special rules  

# (1) Basis reduction  

For purposes of this subtitle, the basis of any property for which a credit is allowable under subsection (a) shall be reduced by the amount of such credit so allowed (determined without regard to subsection (c)).  

# (2) No double benefit  

The amount of any deduction or other credit allowable under this chapter for a vehicle for which a credit is allowable under subsection (a) shall be reduced by the amount of credit allowed under such subsection for such vehicle (determined without regard to subsection (c)).  

# (3) Property used by tax-exempt entity  

In the case of a vehicle the use of which is described in paragraph (3) or (4) of section  

50(b) and which is not subject to a lease, the person who sold such vehicle to the person or entity using such vehicle shall be treated as the taxpayer that placed such vehicle in service, but only if such person clearly discloses to such person or entity in a document the amount of any credit allowable under subsection (a) with respect to such vehicle (determined without regard to subsection (c)). For purposes of subsection (c), property to which this paragraph applies shall be treated as of a character subject to an allowance for depreciation.  

# (4) Property used outside United States not qualified  

No credit shall be allowable under subsection (a) with respect to any property referred to in section 50(b)(1).  

# (5) Recapture  

The Secretary shall, by regulations, provide for recapturing the benefit of any credit allowable under subsection (a) with respect to any property which ceases to be property eligible for such credit.  

# (6) Election not to take credit  

No credit shall be allowed under subsection (a) for any vehicle if the taxpayer elects to not have this section apply to such vehicle.  

# (7) Interaction with air quality and motor vehicle safety standards  

A vehicle shall not be considered eligible for a credit under this section unless such vehicle is in compliance with—  

(A) the applicable provisions of the Clean Air Act for the applicable make and model year of the vehicle (or applicable air quality provisions of State law in the case of a State which has adopted such provision under a waiver under section 209(b) of the Clean Air Act), and (B) the motor vehicle safety provisions of sections 30101 through 30169 of title 49, United States Code.  

# (g) Credit allowed for 2- and 3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicles  

# (1) In general  

In the case of a qualified 2- or 3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicle—  

(A) there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal to the sum of the applicable amount with respect to each such qualified 2- or 3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicle placed in service by the taxpayer during the taxable year, and (B) the amount of the credit allowed under subparagraph (A) shall be treated as a credit allowed under subsection (a).  

# (2) Applicable amount  

For purposes of paragraph (1), the applicable amount is an amount equal to the lesser of—  

(A) 10 percent of the cost of the qualified 2- or 3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicle, or (B) $\$2,500$ .  

# (3) Qualified 2- or 3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicle  

The term ‘‘qualified 2- or 3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicle’’ means any vehicle which—  

(A) has 2 or 3 wheels, (B) meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), $(\mathbf{E})$ , and (F) of subsection (d)(1) (determined by substituting ‘‘2.5 kilowatt hours’’ for $^{\cdot\cdot}4$ kilowatt hours’’ in subparagraph (F)(i)), (C) is manufactured primarily for use on public streets, roads, and highways, (D) is capable of achieving a speed of 45 miles per hour or greater, and $(\mathbf{E})$ is acquired— (i) after December 31, 2011, and before January 1, 2014, or (ii) in the case of a vehicle that has 2 wheels, after December 31, 2014, and before January 1, 2022. (Added Pub. L. 110–343, div. B, title II, $\S205$ (a), Oct. 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 3835; amended Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, $\S1141$ (a), Feb. 17, 2009, 123 Stat. 326; Pub. L. 111–148, title X, $\S10909(\mathrm{b})(2)(\mathrm{H})$ , (c), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 1023; Pub. L. 111–312, title I, $\S101$ (b)(1), Dec. 17, 2010, 124 Stat. 3298; Pub. L. 112–240, title I, $\S104$ (c)(2)(I), title IV, $\S403$ (a), (b), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2322, 2337, 2338; Pub. L. 113–295, div. A, title II, $\S209(\Theta)$ , Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 4028; Pub. L. 114–113, div. Q, title I, $\S183$ (a), Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 3072; Pub. L. 115–123, div. D, title I, $\S40405(\mathrm{a})$ , Feb. 9, 2018, 132 Stat. 148; Pub. L. 116–94, div. Q, title I, $\S126(a)$ , Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 3231; Pub. L. 116–260, div. EE, title I, $\S144({\mathrm{a}})$ , Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 3054.)  

# REFERENCES IN TEXT  

The Clean Air Act, referred to in subsecs. (d)(1)(D), (3), (f)(7)(A), is act July 14, 1955, ch. 360, 69 Stat. 322, which is classified generally to chapter 85 (§ 7401 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Title II of the Act, known as the National Emissions Standards Act, is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 7521 et seq.) of chapter 85 of Title 42. Section 209(b) of the Act is classified to section 7543(b) of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 7401 of Title 42 and Tables.  

# AMENDMENTS  

2020—Subsec. (g)(3)(E)(ii). Pub. L. 116–260 substituted   
‘‘January 1, 2022’’ for ‘‘January 1, 2021’’. 2019—Subsec. (g)(3)(E)(ii). Pub. L. 116–94 substituted   
‘‘January 1, 2021’’ for ‘‘January 1, 2018’’. 2018—Subsec. (g)(3)(E)(ii). Pub. L. 115–123 substituted   
‘‘January 1, 2018’’ for ‘‘January 1, 2017’’. 2015—Subsec. (g)(3)(E). Pub. L. 114–113 substituted   
‘‘acquired—’’ for ‘‘acquired after December 31, 2011, and   
before January 1, 2014.’’ and added cls. (i) and (ii). 2014—Subsec. (f)(1), (2). Pub. L. 113–295, $\S209(\mathrm{e})(1)(\mathrm{A})$ ,   
(B), inserted ‘‘(determined without regard to subsection   
(c))’’ before period at end. Subsec. (f)(3). Pub. L. 113–295, $\S209(\Theta)(2)$ , inserted at   
end ‘‘For purposes of subsection (c), property to which   
this paragraph applies shall be treated as of a character   
subject to an allowance for depreciation.’’ 2013—Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 112–240, $\S104(\mathrm{c})(2)(\mathrm{I})$ ,   
amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par.   
(2) related to personal credit with a limitation based on   
amount of tax. Subsec. (f)(2). Pub. L. 112–240, $\S403(\mathrm{b})(1)$ , substituted   
‘‘vehicle for which a credit is allowable under sub  
section (a)’’ for ‘‘new qualified plug-in electric drive   
motor vehicle’’ and ‘‘allowed under such subsection’’   
for ‘‘allowed under subsection (a)’’. Subsec. (f)(7). Pub. L. 112–240, $\S403(\mathrm{b})(2)$ , substituted   
‘‘A vehicle’’ for ‘‘A motor vehicle’’ in introductory pro  
visions. Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 112–240, $\S403(a)$ , added subsec. (g). 2010—Subsec. (c)(2)(B)(ii). Pub. L. 111–148,   
§ 10909(b)(2)(H), (c), as amended by Pub. L. 111–312, tem  

porarily substituted ‘‘section 25D’’ for ‘‘sections 23 and 25D’’. See Effective and Termination Dates of 2010 Amendment note below.  

2009—Pub. L. 111–5 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section provided credit with respect to each new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle placed in service and set forth provisions defining ‘‘applicable amount’’ and ‘‘new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle’’ and stating limitations based on vehicle weight, the number of vehicles eligible for credit, and amount of tax liability.  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2020 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 116–260, div. EE, title I, $\S144(\mathrm{b})$ , Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 3054, provided that: ‘‘The amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2020.’’  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2019 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 116–94, div. Q, title I, § 126(b), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 3231, provided that: ‘‘The amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2017.’’  

EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2018 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 115–123, div. D, title I, $\S40405(\$ ), Feb. 9, 2018, 132 Stat. 148, provided that: ‘‘The amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2016.’’  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2015 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 114–113, div. Q, title I, $\S183(\mathrm{b})$ , Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 3073, provided that: ‘‘The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2014.’’  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2014 AMENDMENT  

Amendment by Pub. L. 113–295 effective as if included in the provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, to which such amendment relates, see section 209(k) of Pub. L. 113–295, set out as a note under section 24 of this title.  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2013 AMENDMENT  

Amendment by section 104(c)(2)(I) of Pub. L. 112–240 applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2011, see section 104(d) of Pub. L. 112–240, set out as a note under section 23 of this title.  

Pub. L. 112–240, title IV, $\S403$ (c), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2338, provided that: ‘‘The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2011.’’  

# EFFECTIVE AND TERMINATION DATES OF 2010 AMENDMENT  

Amendment by Pub. L. 111–148 terminated applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2011, and section is amended to read as if such amendment had never been enacted, see section 10909(c) of Pub. L. 111–148, set out as a note under section 1 of this title. Amendment by Pub. L. 111–148 applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2009, see section 10909(d) of Pub. L. 111–148, set out as a note under section 1 of this title.  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2009 AMENDMENT  

Amendment by Pub. L. 111–5 applicable to vehicles acquired after Dec. 31, 2009, see section 1141(c) of Pub. L. 111–5, set out as a note under section 30B of this title.  

# EFFECTIVE DATE  

Section applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2008, see section 205(e) of Pub. L. 110–343, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2008 Amendment note under section 24 of this title.  

# SUBPART C—REFUNDABLE CREDITS  

Sec.   
31. Tax withheld on wages.   
32. Earned income.   
33. Tax withheld at source on nonresident aliens and foreign corporations.   
34. Certain uses of gasoline and special fuels. 35. Health insurance costs of eligible individuals. 36. First-time homebuyer credit.   
[36A. Repealed.]   
36B. Refundable credit for coverage under a qualified health plan.   
[36C. Renumbered.]   
37. Overpayments of tax.  

# AMENDMENTS  

2014—Pub. L. 113–295, div. A, title II, $\S221(\mathrm{a})(5)(\mathrm{A})$ , Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 4037, struck out item 36A ‘‘Making work pay credit’’. 2010—Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10909(b)(2)(Q), (c), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 1023, as amended by Pub. L. 111–312, title I, $\S101$ (b)(1), Dec. 17, 2010, 124 Stat. 3298, temporarily added item 36C ‘‘Adoption expenses’’. See Effective and Termination Dates of 2010 Amendment note set out under section 1 of this title. Pub. L. 111–148, title I, § 1401(d)(2), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 220, added item 36B. 2009—Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, § 1001(e)(3), Feb. 17, 2009, 123 Stat. 312, added item 36A. 2008—Pub. L. 110–289, div. C, title I, § 3011(b)(4), July 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2891, added item 36 and redesignated former item 36 as 37. 2002—Pub. L. 107–210, div. A, title II, $\S201$ (c)(2), Aug. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 960, which directed amendment of the table of sections for subpart C of part IV of this chapter by adding items 35 and 36 and striking out the last item, was executed to the table of sections for this subpart which is in part IV of subchapter A of this chapter by adding those items and striking out former item 35 ‘‘Overpayments of tax’’ to reflect the probable intent of Congress.  

1984—Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title IV, $\S471(\mathrm{b})$ , July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 826, added subpart C heading and analysis of sections for subpart C consisting of items 31, 32 (formerly 43), 33 (formerly 32), 34 (formerly 39), and 35 (formerly 45). Former subpart C, setting out the rules for computing credit for expenses of work incentive programs, was repealed.  

# $\S31$ . Tax withheld on wages  

# (a) Wage withholding for income tax purposes (1) In general  

The amount withheld as tax under chapter 24 shall be allowed to the recipient of the income as a credit against the tax imposed by this subtitle.  

# (2) Year of credit  

The amount so withheld during any calendar year shall be allowed as a credit for the taxable year beginning in such calendar year. If more than one taxable year begins in a calendar year, such amount shall be allowed as a credit for the last taxable year so beginning.  

# (b) Credit for special refunds of social security tax  

# (1) In general  

The Secretary may prescribe regulations providing for the crediting against the tax imposed by this subtitle of the amount determined by the taxpayer or the Secretary to be allowable under section 6413(c) as a special refund of tax imposed on wages. The amount allowed as a credit under such regulations shall, for purposes of this subtitle, be considered an amount withheld at source as tax under section 3402.  

# (2) Year of credit  

Any amount to which paragraph (1) applies shall be allowed as a credit for the taxable year beginning in the calendar year during which the wages were received. If more than one taxable year begins in the calendar year, such amount shall be allowed as a credit for the last taxable year so beginning.  

# (c) Special rule for backup withholding  

Any credit allowed by subsection (a) for any amount withheld under section 3406 shall be allowed for the taxable year of the recipient of the income in which the income is received.  

(Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 12; Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(D), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1834; Pub. L. 97–248, title III, §§ 302(a), 308(a), Sept. 3, 1982, 96 Stat. 585, 591; Pub. L. 97–354, $\S3(\mathrm{i})(\cdot$ 4), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1691; Pub. L. 97–448, title III, $\S306$ (b)(1), Jan. 12, 1983, 96 Stat. 2405; Pub. L. 98–67, title I, §§ 102(a), 104(d)(2), Aug. 5, 1983, 97 Stat. 369, 379; Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title IV, § 471(c), title VII, § 714(j)(2), July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 826, 962.)  

# AMENDMENTS  

1984—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 98–369, $\S714(\mathrm{j})(2)$ , substituted ‘‘as tax under chapter $24^{,}$ for ‘‘under section 3402 as tax on the wages of any individual’’.  

1983—Pub. L. 98–67 added subsec. (c) and repealed amendments made by Pub. L. 97–248. See 1982 Amendment note below.  

Pub. L. 97–448 amended subsec. (d) generally. See 1982 Amendment note below.  

1982—Pub. L. 97–248, as amended by Pub. L. 97–354 and Pub. L. 97–448, amended section generally, applicable to payments of interest, dividends, and patronage dividends paid or credited after June 30, 1983. Section 102(a), (b) of Pub. L. 98–67, title I, Aug. 5, 1983, 97 Stat. 369, repealed subtitle A (§§ 301–308) of title III of Pub. L. 97–248 as of the close of June 30, 1983, and provided that the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 [now 1986] [this title] shall be applied and administered (subject to certain exceptions) as if such subtitle A (and the amendments made by such subtitle A) had not been enacted.  

1976—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 94–455 struck out ‘‘or his delegate’’ after ‘‘The Secretary’’ and ‘‘(or his delegate)’’ after ‘‘taxpayer or the Secretary’’.  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title VII, $\S715$ , July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 966, provided that: ‘‘Any amendment made by this subtitle [subtitle A (§§ 711–715) of title VII of Pub. L. 98–369, see Tables for classification] shall take effect as if included in the provision of the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 [Pub. L. 97–248] to which such amendment relates.’’  

# EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1983 AMENDMENT  

Pub. L. 98–67, title I, $\S110$ , Aug. 5, 1983, 97 Stat. 384, provided that:  

‘‘(a) GENERAL RULE.—Except as otherwise provided in this section, the amendments made by this title [enacting sections 3406 and 6705 of this title, amending this section and sections 274, 275, 643, 661, 3402, 3403, 3502, 3507, 6011, 6013, 6015, 6042, 6044, 6049, 6051, 6365, 6401, 6413, 6652, 6653, 6654, 6676, 6678, 6682, 7205, 7215, 7431, 7654, and 7701 of this title, repealing sections 3451 to 3456 of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 1, 3451, and 6011 of this title, and repealing provisions set out as a note under section 3451 of this title] shall apply with respect to payments made after December 31, 1983.  