# COMMERCIAL CONDUIT APPLICATION FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION  

Incentives are available for the installation of commercial conduit needed for an electric vehicle charging station. This incentive reimburses $\$15$ per foot of conduit installed with a minimum of $\$500$ and maximum of $\$2000$ . Contact Chad Pinkelman at 402-710-1410 or 402-563-5084; or email cjpinke@nppd.com with any questions.  

1. Customer Name: Electric Utility: Account Number: Telephone Number: Address, City, ZIP: Installation Address & City (if different from above): Email Address:  

# 2. Equipment Information:  

Conduit Length: Conduit Diameter Size:   
Invoice required/included       Photo(s) of Installation included   
Contact your Utility or Chad Pinkelman at 402-710-1410 or 402-563-5084; or email cjpinke@nppd.com with any questions.  

3. Installed By: Name: Phone #: Address, City & ZIP: Installed by: Print Name Signature Date  

4. By signing below, customer agrees to the Terms and Conditions listed on the back of this application. Customer: Print Name Signature Date  

# 5. Submit this application to your local utility for approval.  

For Utility Use Only: Incentive amount:   
Approved by: Print Name Signature Date   
Date Received Itemized Invoice:  

# TERMS & CONDITIONS  

NEW CONSTRUCTION VS EXISTING: Existing structures have had permanent, electrical service for twelve (12) months or more. New construction is defined as structures with electrical service less than twelve (12) months.  

PROOF OF INSTALLATION:  Documentation must include proof of conduit installation via Electrician signoff of work completion, along with a photo of the installation.  This photo can be submitted via mail or email.  If this proof is not received within 90 days of the expiration date on the application, the application will be voided.  

INCENTIVE OFFER: Details of this program, including incentive levels, are subject to change without notice. The electric utility reserves the right to limit incentives. Not available for equipment that qualifies under other EnergyWise℠ incentive programs. All incentives are subject to specific program guidelines. This incentive is only available to customers of Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD) and customers of its wholesale utilities.  

ELIGIBLE EQUIPMENT: This incentive is for the installation of conduit for use with conductor for minimum ampacity of the following charger loads per NEC (National Electrical Code) and/or the running of appropriate size conduit per NEC, from the load center to a future EV charging station.   Example Load Requirements: Level 2: single phase, 240 volts, 60 amps per port. Level 3 (DCFC): 480V AC, 3-phase, 80A, 60 Hz. Exact requirements may vary.  

ISSUING INCENTIVES: Conduit must be installed before an incentive is issued. Falsifying any information may lead to cancellation of this and future incentive applications, a claim by the electric utility for the return of any incentive, and/or referral for prosecution. Please allow 45 days for delivery of incentives. Submitting an application with incomplete or missing information may delay processing of the incentive.  

APPROVAL & VERIFICATION: The electric utility reserves the right to verify sales transactions and projects prior to an after installation.  

TAX LIABILITY: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District are responsible for any tax liabilit imposed on the customer as a result of the EV charging station conduit.  

ENDORSEMENT: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District endorses any particula manufacturers, products, or system designs in promoting this program.  

DISPOSAL: The customer/contractor is responsible for the proper disposal and/or recycling of any waste generate as a result of this project.  

SAFETY & BUILDING CODES: The customer/contractor agrees that each measure complies with all federal, state, and local safety, building, and environmental codes. All products must be UL-listed and installed per manufacturer's instructions.  

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District warrant the performance of any equipment either expressly or implicitly. Contact the supplier or contractor for details regarding equipment warranties.  