# RESIDENTIAL CHARGING STATION APPLICATION  

An incentive for the purchase of a residential EV charging station is available. See Terms and Conditions for more details.   
Contact your local electric utility with any questions.  

 An incentive of $50\%$ of the cost for the installation of a residential Electric Vehicle charging station Submit application and proof of purchase to your local utility  

1. Customer Name: Electric Utility: Account #: Telephone #: Address, City, ZIP: Single Family       Multi-Family Installation Address & City (if different from above): Email Address:   
2. Charging Station:  Make/Model: Serial #: Installation Date:  

3. By signing below, customer indicates the EV charging station is installed and connected properly and agrees to the Terms and Conditions listed on the back of this application.  

# TERM & CONDITIONS  

PROOF OF PURCHASE – Charging Station: Any Residential Electric Vehicle charging station. Sales receipt(s) or invoice(s) itemizing the charging station and indicating the size, type, make, model, and purchase date. Charging station must be purchased and installed before final incentive is paid.  

INCENTIVE OFFER: Details of this program, including incentive levels, are subject to change without notice. The electric utility reserves the right to limit incentives. Not available for equipment that qualifies under other EnergyWise℠ incentive programs. All incentives are subject to specific program guidelines. This incentive is only available to customers of Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD) and customers of its wholesale utilities.  

ELIGIBLE EQUIPMENT: Any Residential Electric Vehicle charging stations.  

ISSUING INCENTIVES: Equipment must be purchased and installed before an incentive is issued. Falsifying any information may lead to cancellation of this and future incentive applications, a claim by the electric utility for the return of any incentive, and/or referral for prosecution. Please allow 45 days for delivery of incentives. Submitting an application with incomplete or missing information may delay processing of the incentive.  

APPROVAL & VERIFICATION: The electric utility reserves the right to verify sales transactions and projects prior to and afte nstallation.  

TAX LIABILITY: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District are responsible for any tax liability imposed on th customer as a result of the incentive.  

ENDORSEMENT: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District endorses any manufacturers, products, or system designs in promoting this program.  

DISPOSAL: The customer/contractor is responsible for the proper disposal and/or recycling of any waste generated as a result of thi project.  

SAFETY & BUILDING CODES: It is the responsibility of the customer/contractor to comply with all federal, state, and loca safety, building, and environmental codes. All products must be UL-listed and installed per manufacturer's instructions.  

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District warrant the performance of an equipment either expressly or implicitly. Contact the supplier or contractor for details regarding equipment warranties.  

USE OF CUSTOMER DATA: The utility asserts that energy data collected is for research purposes only. Any dissemination of the data would be scrubbed of individual identification.  