# RESIDENTIAL WIRING APPLICATION FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION  

Incentives are available for residential wiring for the future installation of an electric vehicle charging station. Contact your local electric utility with any questions.  

New construction: $\$400$ Existing construction: $100\%$ of installed cost (maximum of $\$600$ ) Incentive Amount:  

1. Customer Name: Electric Utility: Account #: Telephone #: Address, City, ZIP: Installation Address & City (if different from above): Email Address:  

Please select: □ New Construction or  □ Existing Construction □ Single Family or    □ Multi-Family  

2. Equipment Information: Cable Size: and/or  Conduit Diameter Size:  

# 3. Installed By:  

Name: Phone #: Address, City & ZIP: Print Name Signature Date  

4. By signing below, customer agrees to the Terms and Conditions listed on the back of this application. Customer: Print Name Signature Date  

5. Submit application along with a photo of the installation to your utility. For existing construction, also include a copy of invoice or receipt.  

# TERMS & CONDITIONS  

PROOF OF INSTALLATION: Documentation must include signature of electrical contractor or installer indicating completion of wiring or conduit installation, along with a photo of the installation. For existing construction, an invoice or receipt is also required. This photo and invoice (if applicable) can be submitted via mail or email.  

INCENTIVE OFFER: Details of this program, including incentive levels, are subject to change without notice. The electric utility reserves the right to limit incentives. Not available for equipment that qualifies under other EnergyWise℠ incentive programs. All incentives are subject to specific program guidelines. This incentive is only available to customers of Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD) and customers of its wholesale utilities.  

ELIGIBLE EQUIPMENT: This incentive is for the installation of residential EV wiring with NM cable for minimum ampacity of 32 Amps continuous load per NEC (National Electrical Code) and/or the running of appropriate size conduit per NEC, from the load center to a future NEMA 6-50 or 14-50 receptacle.  

ISSUING INCENTIVES: Cable and/or conduit must be installed before an incentive is issued. Falsifying any information may lead to cancellation of this and future incentive applications, a claim by the electric utility for the return of any incentive, and/or referral for prosecution. Please allow 45 days for delivery of incentives. Submitting an application with incomplete or missing information may delay processing of the incentive.  

APPROVAL & VERIFICATION: The electric utility reserves the right to verify sales transactions and projects prior to and after installation.  

TAX LIABILITY: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District are responsible for any tax liability imposed on the customer as a result of the EV charging station residential EV wiring.  

ENDORSEMENT: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District endorses any manufacturers, products, or system designs in promoting this program.  

DISPOSAL: The customer/contractor is responsible for the proper disposal and/or recycling of any waste generated as a result of this project.  

SAFETY & BUILDING CODES: The customer/contractor agrees that each measure complies with all federal, state, and local safety, building, and environmental codes. All products must be UL-listed and installed per manufacturer's instructions.  

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES: Neither the electric utility nor Nebraska Public Power District warrant the performance of any equipment either expressly or implicitly. Contact the supplier or contractor for details regarding equipment warranties.  