# Credits for new clean vehicles purchased in 2023 or a!er  

If you place in service a new plug-in electric vehicle (EV) or fuel cell vehicle (FCV) in 2023 or a!er, you may qualify for a clean vehicle tax credit. For more information on h to qualify see Publication 5866, New Clean Vehicle Tax Credit Checklist PDF .  

At the time of sale, a seller must give you information about your vehicle's qualifications. Sellers must also register online and report the same information to the IRS. If don't, your vehicle won't be eligible for the credit. For more information see Publication 5905, Information for Consumers Purchasing a New or Used Clean Vehicle PDF  

information on credits for used clean vehicles, qualified commercial clean vehicles and new plug-in EVs purchased before  

# Who qualifies  

You may qualify for a credit up to $\$7,500$ under Internal Revenue Code Section 30D if you buy a new, qualified plug-in EV or fuel cell electric vehicle (FCV). The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 changed the rules for this credit for vehicles purchased from 2023 to 2032.  

The credit is available to individuals and their businesses.  

To qualify, you must:  

Buy it for your own use, not for resale Use it primarily in the U.S.  

In addition, your modified adjusted gross income (AGI) may not exceed:  

$\$300,000$ for married couples filing jointly or a surviving spouse   
$\$225,000$ for heads of households   
$\$150,000$ for all other filers  

You can use your modified AGI from the year you take delivery of the vehicle or the year before, whichever is less. If your modified AGI is below the threshold in 1 of the 2 years, you can claim the credit.  

If you do not transfer the credit, it is nonrefundable when you file your taxes, so you can't get back more on the credit than you owe in taxes. You can't apply any excess credit to future tax years.  

# Credit amount  

The amount of the credit depends on when you placed the vehicle in-service (took delivery), regardless of purchase date.  

# For vehicles placed in-service January 1 to April 17, 2023:  

$\$2,500$ base amount Plus $\$417$ for a vehicle with at least 7 kilowatt hours of battery capacity Plus $\$417$ for each kilowatt hour of battery capacity beyond 5 kilowatt hours Up to $\$7,500$ total  

In general, the minimum credit will be $\$3,751$ ( $\$2,500$ times $\$417$ ), the credit amount for a vehicle with the minimum 7 kilowatt hours of battery capacity.  

# For vehicles placed in-service April 18, 2023 and a!er:  

Vehicles will have to meet all of the same criteria listed above, plus meet new critical mineral and battery component requirements for a credit up to:  

$\$3,750$ if the vehicle meets the critical minerals requirement only $\$3,750$ if the vehicle meets the battery components requirement only $\$7,500$ if the vehicle meets both  

A vehicle that doesn't meet either requirement will not be eligible for a credit  

# Qualified vehicles  

Click the button below to see if a vehicle is eligible for the new clean vehicle credit.  

# Go to fueleconomy.gov  

To qualify, a vehicle must:  

Credits for new clean vehicles purchased in 2023 or after | Internal Revenue Service  

Have a battery capacity of at least 7 kilowatt  hours   
Have a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 14,000 pounds   
Be made by a qualified manufacturer   
Undergo final assembly in North America   
Meet critical mineral and battery component requirements (as of April 18, 2023)  

The sale qualifies only if:  

You buy the vehicle new.   
The seller reports required information to you at the time of sale and to the IRS. Sellers are required to report your name and taxpayer identification number to the IRS for you to be eligible to claim the credit.  

In addition, the vehicle's manufacturer suggested retail price (MSRP) can't exceed:  

. $\$80,000$ for vans, sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks . $\$55,000$ for other vehicles  

MSRP is the retail price of the automobile suggested by the manufacturer, including manufacturer installed options, accessories and trim but excluding destination fees.   
isn't necessarily the price you pay.  

You can find your vehicle's weight, battery capacity, final assembly location (listed as "final assembly point") and VIN on the vehicle's window sticker.  

# How to claim the credit  

To claim the credit, file Form 8936, Clean Vehicle Credits with your tax return. You will need to provide your vehicle's VIN.  

# Get a time-of-sale report  

The dealer should give you a paper copy of a time-of-sale report when you complete your purchase.  

Keep this copy for your records because it affirms that the dealer sent a report to the IRS on the purchase date.   
If you didn’t receive a copy of the report, follow our step-by-step guide.  

# File Form 8936 with your tax return  

You must file Form 8936 when you file your tax return for the year in which you take delivery of the vehicle. This is true whether you transferred the credit at the time of s or you’re waiting to claim the credit when you file.  

If you have questions or concerns, follow our step-by-step guide.  

# Related  

Publication 5866, NEW Clean Vehicle Tax Credit Checklist PDF   
Credits for new electric vehicles purchased in 2022 or before   
Used Clean Vehicle Credit   
Commercial Clean Vehicle Credit   
Credits and deductions under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022   
Frequently asked questions about the New, Previously-owned and Qualified Commercial Clean Vehicles Credit   
Form 15400, Clean Vehicle Seller Report (Sample, new vehicle) PDF   
Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit   
Refueling Infrastructure Tax Credit   