# RESIDENTIALEVCHARGER  

Rebate Amount:  

$\$900$ whenpurchased with a new or pre-owned all-electric vehicle $\$700$ when purchased with a new or pre-owned plug-in hybrid electric vehicle  

Rebate will be processed after we receive an automated notification that your station is enrolled in our EV Rate.  

After your new charger is installed and you have enrolled in the special Residential EV Rate you will save up to $45\%$ onchargingyourEV  

Savings applyonly toEVcharging costs.   
Charging must be done between10pm and 12pm the following day.   
Savings will be applied as a 7.6c/kwh credit onyour bill.  

Have the following items ready:  

·Your Burlington Electric Department account number. It is printed on your monthly bill Photos or scans of your receipts for the charger and charger installation.  

Terms&Conditions  

■ Charger can be purchased prior to purchase of EV but no later than 60 days after EV purchase.In either case, charger rebate will not be processed until after you have enrolled in our EV rat · Charger must be a qualifying EV charger. Visit our EV Rate page for a list of products.   
· Total rebate amount (including contractor rebate, this online rebate, and low-income bonus rebate) is limited to $75\%$ of installed cost.   
· This rebate is only for BED customers with active accounts.   
· Vehicle must be registered in Burlington, Vermont.   
· Contractors are required to secure the necessary permitsfrom Burlington's Permiting and Inspections Department.   
· Limit one rebate per household or business.   
· BED reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
· This offer is valid through December 31, 2025.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to inspect installation and/or verify purchase.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
·Please be aware that if your rebates from BED total more than $\$600$ in a calendar year you may be required to complete and submit a W9 form. A w9 form will be provided in this rebate form if it is required.  

# LEVEL2&3WORKPLACEEVCHARGER  

Rebate Amount:  

■ Level 2: $\$2,500$ per port, up to $75\%$ of installed cost ■ Level 2 chargers installed in a Disadvantaged Community (DAC) according to the Justice 40 census map are eligible for a $\$4,000$ rebate.   
■ Level 3: up to $\$15,000$ per system, up to $75\%$ of installed cost ·Level 3 charger must be 50kW/200 amps or higher output. ■ Level 3 charger must connected to a 480v, 3-phase line. ■ Level 3 charger must be available to the public during typical non-business hours (e.g. nights, weekends).  

Have the following items ready:  

·Your Burlington Electric Department account number. It is printed on your monthly bill. ■Photos or scans of your receipts for the charger and charger installation   
■A photoor scan of theelectricpermit   
■A photo of the installed charger   
Informationrequiredtofill out aW9form  

Terms&Conditions  

· This rebate form must be submitted within 60 days of installation.   
· This rebate is only for BED commercial customers with active accounts.   
· Total rebate amount is limited to $75\%$ of installed cost.   
■ This rebate is limited to 10 ports per business (not Location ID) unless pre-approved by BED.   
· This rebate is only for Level 2 chargers, or higher, installed at workplaces in Burlington, VT.   
· This rebate can be applied to the cost of installing the charger(s) on the customer's premise. Additional costs may be incurred to upgrade the electric grid serving the customer's premise.   
· Contractors are required to secure the necessary permits from Burlington's Permitting and Inspections Department.   
· BED reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
· This offer is valid through December 31, 2025.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to inspect installation and/or verify purchase.   
■ Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
■ Please be aware that if your rebates from BED total more than $\$600$ in a calendar year you may be required to complete and submit a W9 form. A W9 form wil be provided in this rebate fc  

# RESIDENTIALEVCHARGER-MULTI-FAMILY  

RebateAmount: $\$1,000$  

$\$500$ : Enhanced rebate fo income-qulifying customers To qualify for the aditional rebate, more than $15\%$ of the units yourEVcharger seves must have agrossincome lesthanthe limitslisted on the folowing Documentation page.   
$\$500$ : Enhanced rebate for publicly available chargers · To qualify for the additional rebate for publicly available chargers, the charger must be made available to the public at least from 9am to 5pm during the week.  

Have the following items ready:  

·Your Burlington Electric Department account number. It is printed on your monthly bill.   
■ Photos or scans of your receipts for the charger and charger installation.   
· Verification (screenshot or other proof) that the charger is visible on PlugShare or other EV charger station listing service.   
Informationrequired tofill outaW9form.  

Terms&Conditions  

· Recipient must be a Burlington Electric Department customer.   
· EV charger must be wired with a house meter that is billed separately, to the property owner or association, from meters for residential units.   
· Property must be a multi-family unit dwelling, which includes multiple separate housing units for residential inhabitants contained within one building or several buildings within one coml · Limit 10 rebates per multi-familyunit dwelling.   
· Aditional rebates may be available with prior approval.   
· EV Chargers must be installed by a licensed electrician and the owner/contractor/electrician is responsible for all applicable permits.   
· Dedicated parking spots with signage should be available for each EV charger port.   
·The price of charging will not exceed \$0.30 per kWh or \$3.40 per hour.   
· By accepting this incentive, the recipient agrees to maintain the installed EV charger in a manner that willensure the intended access to this equipment.   
· Burlington Electric Department limits rebates to $75\%$ of installed cost.   
· This offer is valid through December 31, 2025.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to inspect installation and/or verify purchase.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
■ Please be aware that if your rebates from BED total more than $\$600$ in a calendar year you may be required to complete and submit a W9 form. A W9 form willbe provided in this rebate  