# VW EVSE Round 1 – ZEV Infrastructure Program (ZIP)  

# Frequently Asked Questions  

1. Who is my contact at DEEP for this project? .   
2. How is the grantee’s cost share determined? . 2 3. I thought that the utility rebate and VW EVSE grant would cover the entire cost of the project. Why is a grantee cost share required? . 2 4. In some cases, the amount of the DEEP award along with the utility incentive cover all of the initial installation costs (EVSE and make-ready).  In this case, would the grant amount still be reduced? 2   
5. If the total cost of the project comes in under budget (under the total project cost listed in the proposal), will the grant amount be reduced? ....   
6. Can I request an extension?  If so, how? . 3 7. I am worried about the deadline associated with my utility rebate. Can I get this done in time? .. 3 8. When can I expect to receive the Scope of Work (SOW or Management Plan)?............. . 3 9. Can I set up a call or meeting with the DEEP Mobile Sources Group to discuss next steps? ........... 3 10. What criteria were used in ranking or determining how to distribute/award (for private entities)? . 3 11. If applications were submitted for multiple locations, but not all locations received awards, can the awarded locations be changed or adjusted to install at the other locations? 4 12. Does the full project need to be installed or can a partial project be completed for the same amount of allocated funds (i.e., installing 2 of the 3 ports and removing maintenance fees)?.... 4 13. Can grantees utilize VW EVSE grant funds and utility incentives to pay for recurring network, warranty, and maintenance fees annually without impacting the overall award?.. . 4 14. Will DEEP be announcing a second round for VW EVSE ZIP? .. 4 15. Are there any other funding opportunities available for EVSE purchase and installation? ......... 4 16. When will the VW funded EVSE program for Multi-Unit Dwellings (MUDs) be launched? ......... 4  

1. Who is my contact at DEEP for this project?  

The DEEP project administrator was listed in the award letter.  If you no longer have the award letter, please contact DEEP.MobileSources@ct.gov to ask who the project administer is and how to contact them.  

# 2. How is the grantee’s cost share determined?  

For projects awarded utility rebates:  

Government-owned:  The grantee’s cost share is $35\%$ of the total project cost remaining after taking into account the utility rebate.  

Grant amount $=$ (Total project cost – Approved utility rebate) $\tt{x0.65}$  

Privately Owned:   The grantee’s cost share is $40\%$ of the total project cost remaining after taking into account the utility rebate.  

Grant amount $=$ (Total project cost – Approved utility rebate) $\tt{x0.60}$  

For projects without utility rebates:  

Government-owned:  The grantee’s cost share is $35\%$ of the total project cost.  

Privately-owned:  The grantee’s cost share is $40\%$ of the total project cost.  

3. I thought that the utility rebate and VW EVSE grant would cover the entire cost of the project. Why is a grantee cost share required?  

DEEP has coordinated with the utilities and collectively made the decision that a grantee cost share for these projects is necessary to extend funds in both the DEEP and utility programs to provide the best societal benefit to the most people in Connecticut.  Projects are still substantially covered by the two grants.  

4. In some cases, the amount of the DEEP award along with the utility incentive cover all of the initial installation costs (EVSE and make-ready).  In this case, would the grant amount still be reduced?  

Yes, it is still possible that the total grant funding could be reduced.  DEEP has coordinated with the utilities and collectively made the decision that a grantee cost share for these projects is necessary to extend funds in both the DEEP and utility programs to provide the best societal benefit to the most people in Connecticut.  Projects are still substantially covered by the two grants.  

5. If the total cost of the project comes in under budget (under the total project cost listed in the proposal), will the grant amount be reduced?  

Yes.  The final grant amount will be determined as follows:  

For projects awarded utility rebates:  

Government-owned:  

Grant amount $=$ (Total project cost – Approved utility rebate) $\tt{x0.65}$  

Privately Owned:  

Grant amount $=$ (Total project cost – Approved utility rebate) $\tt{x0.60}$ For projects without utility rebates:  

Government-owned:  

Grant amount $=$ Total project cost x 0.65  

Privately-owned:  

Grant amount $=$ Total project cost x 0.60  

# 6. Can I request an extension?  If so, how?  

Yes.  DEEP understands that project timelines may be delayed by factors such as: delay in the award announcement, supply chain disruptions, need to secure additional project money in municipal budgets or other third sources, procurement delays, etc.  DEEP is willing to work with awardees who have shown progress in project implementation to provide extensions.  If you would like to discuss an extension with DEEP, please email your DEEP project administrator.  

7. I am worried about the deadline associated with my utility rebate. Can I get this done in time?  

DEEP is collaborating with the utilities and has provided them a list of VW EVSE Round 1 awardees.  DEEP aims to ensure that awardees will have access to both DEEP grants and utility rebates during project implementation.  If you believe that a utility grant is at risk, please let us know.  

8. When can I expect to receive the Scope of Work (SOW or Management Plan)?  

DEEP has a significant number of project plans to draft.  DEEP will work as quickly as practicable to provide initial project plans to the awardees.  If you have questions, please contact your DEEP project administrator.  

9. Can I set up a call or meeting with the DEEP Mobile Sources Group to discuss next steps? Yes.  Please contact your DEEP project administrator to set up a meeting to talk about next steps.  DEEP staff will set up a meeting within a week of receiving the request.  

10. What criteria were used in ranking or determining how to distribute/award (for private entities)?  

The ranking criteria were based primarily on the location of the charging stations.  Therefore, each location, whether in a multiple-location proposal or single-location proposal, was evaluated separately.  The location-based criteria used included, but were not limited to, the following:  

• Is the location in an EPA-designated nonattainment area for ozone? • Is the location in a designated environmental justice community? • Is the location in an area underserved by EV chargers? • Is the location within one mile of the exit ramp of a major highway or thoroughfare? Is the location at a major tourist or entertainment destination?  

Based on the number of EVs registered in the community, what are the projected emission reductions benefits of an installation in that location?  

11. If applications were submitted for multiple locations, but not all locations received awards, can the awarded locations be changed or adjusted to install at the other locations? No.  Partial awards were based on individual location criteria and selected due to scoring higher in the application ranking process.  

12. Does the full project need to be installed or can a partial project be completed for the same amount of allocated funds (i.e., installing 2 of the 3 ports and removing maintenance fees)? No.  The award is for the project that was applied for.  If a project’s scope or size is decreased DEEP may decrease the award in proportion to the change.  

13. Can grantees utilize VW EVSE grant funds and utility incentives to pay for recurring network, warranty, and maintenance fees annually without impacting the overall award? Yes. Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs for the first three years of operation were included in DEEP grant considerations as an eligible cost of the grant. Grantees should work with the utilities to determine if O&M costs are eligible under the utility rebate.  

# 14. Will DEEP be announcing a second round for VW EVSE ZIP?  

DEEP has limited funding remaining for a second round and is currently in the planning process of scoping any future rounds of funding. To receive first notification of DEEP grant programs, outreach events, mitigation plan development and future VW settlement information as soon as they become available, please join our email distribution list by clicking here.  

15. Are there any other funding opportunities available for EVSE purchase and installation? You can check with your utility to see if there are any incentives available for your projec  

o Click here for Eversource incentives.   
o Click here for UI incentives.  

# 16. When will the VW funded EVSE program for Multi-Unit Dwellings (MUDs) be launched?  

DEEP has limited funding remaining for MUDs and is currently in the planning process of scoping any future rounds of funding.  Please contact us at DEEP.MobileSources@ct.gov if you'd like to be notified when EVSE funding for MUDs is available.  