# ELECTRICVEHICLE:NEW  

RebateAmount:  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td>StandardRebate</td><td>Income-QualifiedEnhancedRebate</td></tr><tr><td>NewAll-Electric(AEV)-StandardDriver</td><td>$2,300</td><td>$3,000</td></tr><tr><td>NewAll-Electric(AEV)-High-Mileage Driver*</td><td>$3,250</td><td>$3,750</td></tr><tr><td>NewPlug-InHybrid (PHEV)</td><td>$2,000</td><td>$2,300</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Income-Qualified Enhanced Rebatedetailsonfollowing screen.  

\* High-Mileage Driver: To qualify, customer must have driven at least 17,600 miles last year.  

This rebate is in addition to any manufacturer rebates.  

Have the following items ready:  

·Your Burlington Electric Department account number. It is printed on your monthly bill ■Aphotoorscanofaproofofpurchaseor lease ·A photo or scan of proof of Vermont registration of qualifying vehicle  

Terms&Conditions  

# TheMSRPmust be $\$60,000$ or less.  

· Commercial customers only: The MsRP for commercial trucks, SUVs, or vans must be $\$80,000$ or less. · Commercial truck, SuV, or van must be registered in the name of the business. Vehicle must be registered as a truck. ■ MSRP is the cost of the vehicle with all of your included features before taxes and fees. ■ Be sure your make and model is on the qualifying product list and has an MSRP of $\$60,000$ or less (or \$80,000 for commercial trucks, SuVs, and vans).   
· This rebate is only for BED customers with active accounts.   
· This rebate form must be submitted within 60 days of purchase.   
· Vehicle must be registered in Burlington, Vermont.   
■ For commercial customers, vehicles must be registered in the business name that matches the active BED account name on this form.   
· Limit four rebates per household & four rebates per commercial account. · Additional rebates for commercial customers may be available with prior approval.   
· BED reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
· This offer is valid through December 31, 2025.   
■ Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to inspect installation and/or verify purchase.   
■ Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
· Please be aware that if your rebates from BED total more than $\$600$ in a calendar year you may be required to complete and submit a W9 form. A w9 form will be provided in this rebate form if it is required.  

# ELECTRICVEHICLE:PRE-OWNED  

Rebate Amount  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td>StandardRebate</td><td>Income-QualifiedEnhancedRebate</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-OwnedAll-Electric(AEV)-StandardDriver</td><td>$1,300</td><td>$2,000</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-Owned All-Electric(AEV)-High-MileageDriver*</td><td>$2,550</td><td>$3,050</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-OwnedPlug-InHybrid(PHEV)</td><td>$1,300</td><td>$1,500</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Income-Qualified Enhanced Rebatedetailsonfollowingscreen.  

\* High-Mileage Driver: To qualify, customer must have driven at least 17,600 miles last year.  

This rebate is in addition to any manufacturer rebates. The bill of sale must include separate line items for this BED rebate and the State of Vermont rebate, if applicable. Have thefollowing itemsready:  

·Your Burlington Electric Department account number. It is printed on your monthly bill ■A photo orscan of aproof ofpurchaseor lease A photo or scan of proof of Vermont registration of qualifying vehicle  

Terms&Conditions  

# The amountyou paid for thevehiclemustbe $\$60,000$ orless  

·The amount you paid for commercial trucks,Suvs,or vans must be $\$80,000$ orless ·Commercial truck, Suv, or van must be registered in the name of the business. Vehiclemustberegistered as a truck.   
·The amount you paid is the cost of the vehicle with all of your included features before taxes and fees.   
· Be sure your make and model is on the qualifying product list.  

Modelyearmustbefromlast8years:2018orlater.  

· This rebate is not eligible if you claimed a rebate on this vehicle previously. For example, you are not eligible for this rebate if purchasing a vehicle you had been leasing if you claimed a rebate when you first leased This rebate form must be submited within 60 days of purchase.   
· This rebate is only for BED customers with active accounts.   
· Vehicle must be registered in Burlington, Vermont.   
· Limit four rebates per household or commercial customer.   
· Rebates on additional EVs for commercial customers may be available with prior approval from BED.   
· BED reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time. · This offer is valid through December 31, 2025.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to inspect installation and/or verify purchase.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
· Please be aware that if your rebates from BED total more than $\$600$ in a calendar year you may be required to complete and submit a W9 form. A W9 form will be provided in this rebate form if it is required  

# RESIDENTIALEVCHARGER  

Rebate Amount:  

$\$900$ when purchased with a new or pre-owned all-electric vehicle $\$700$ when purchased with a new or pre-owned plug-in hybrid electric vehicle  

Rebate will be processed after we receive an automated notification that your station is enrolled in our EV Rate.  

fter your new charger is installed and you have enrolled in the special Residential EV Rate you will save up to $45\%$ onchargingyourEv.  

Savings apply only to EVcharging costs.   
■Charging must be done between 10pm and 12pm the following day.   
Savings will be applied as a 7.6c/kwh credit on your bill.  

Have the following items ready:  

·Your Burlington Electric Department account number. It is printed on your monthly bill ■Photos or scans of your receipts for the charger and charger installation.  

Terms&Conditions  

· Charger can be purchased prior to purchase of EV but no later than 60 days after EV purchase. In either case, charger rebate willnot be processed until after you have enrolled in our EV ra · Charger must be a qualifying EV charger. Visit our EV Rate page for a lit of products.   
■ Total rebate amount (including contractor rebate, this online rebate, and low-income bonus rebate) is limited to $75\%$ of installed cost.   
· This rebate is only for BED customers with active accounts.   
· Vehicle must be registered in Burlington, Vermont.   
· Contractors are required to secure the necessary permits from Burlington's Permiting and Inspections Department.   
· Limit one rebate per household or business.   
■ BED reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
■ This offer is valid through December 31, 2025.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to inspect installtion and/or verify purchase.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
·Please be aware that if your rebates from BED total more than $\$600$ in a calendar year you may be required to complete and submit a W9 form. A w9 form will be provided in this rebate form if it is required.  

# ELECTRIC MOTORCYCLE  

RebateAmount: $\$500$  

Have the following items ready:  

·Your Burlington Electric Department account number. It is printed on your monthly bill. ■Aphotoor scanof a proof ofpurchase orlease   
■A photo or scan of proof of Vermont registration of qualifying vehicle   
■Information required to fill out a W9 form  

Terms&Conditions  

■TheMSRPmustbe $\$25,000$ orless.   
·MSRP is the cost of the vehicle with all of your included featuresbefore taxes and fees. ·MinimumBatterySize:6kWh   
·Vehicle must be new. Reconditioned models are not eligible.   
·Vehicle must be registered in Burlington, Vermont.   
■This rebate is only for BED customers with active accounts.   
·This rebate form must be submitted within 60 days of purchase.   
·Limit tworebates per household &tworebates per commercial account.   
· Additional rebates may be available with prior approval.   
I his offer is valid through December 31, 2025   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to inspect installation and/or verify purchase. · Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time. ■ Please be aware that if your rebates from BED total more than $\$600$  

in a calendar year you may be required to complete and submit a W9 form. A W9 form will be provided in this rebate form if it is required.  