# GMP EV Rebates  

# Terms & Conditions  

$\$2,200$ rebate available for new all-electric vehicles. $\$1,500$ rebate available for used all-electric vehicles. . $\$1,000$ rebate is available for new plug in hybrids (PHEV), $\$750$ for used PHEV Additional low income rebate is available only for all electric vehicles, new or used, and only for customers who meet income requirements. Vehicle must be registered in Vermont at customer’s GMP service address. Free Level 2 charger is available with purchase/lease of all electric vehicle and while enrolled in GMP home charging program. Point-of-sale/lease rebate is currently available at participating dealerships (see GMP website for list). Customers selecting the point of sale/lease option acknowledge that dealership has already applied the rebate to the purchase price of the vehicle. The dealership is responsible for submitting this form and supporting documentation and will receive the rebate amount in full. Customer eligibility for customer use vehicles only; not available for vehicles intended for resale. This rebate may be considered taxable income by the federal or state government. Consult a tax professional for advice and to determine the tax consequences of this rebate. W9 form required prior to issuing rebate check. Rebates will be issued upon receipt and review of completed applications. Customers joining the free charger program must have WiFi, install the charger, connect to and share access with GMP. This rebate is only for GMP customers with active accounts. For used vehicle rebates, purchases by customers who have already claimed a GMP incentive for that vehicle are not eligible. GMP reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time. Offer valid for qualifying vehicles through June 30, 2025.  