# NEW YORK ELECTRIC VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE MAKE-READY PROGRAM  

# Amended Participant Guide Submitted by:  

Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corporation   
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.   
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation d/b/a National Grid   
New York State Electric & Gas Corporation   
Rochester Gas and Electric Corporation   
Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc.  

Originally Filed: October 14, 2020  

Updated: October 18, 2024  

Case 18-E-0138  

Pursuant to New York Public Service Commission’s Order Approving Modifications to Make-Ready Program (Sept. 20, 2024)  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

SECTION 1:  REVISION TRACKER  

SECTION 2:  OVERVIEW  

ECTION 3:  DEFINITIONS  

TION 4:  EV MAKE-READY PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY AND INCENTIVES 3  

ION 5:  APPLICATION & ENROLLMENT  

ECTION 6:  OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS 9  

SECTION 8:  PROGRAM SUPPORT 11  

SECTION 1: REVISION TRACKER   


<html><body><table><tr><td>DATE</td><td colspan="4">REVISIONDESCRIPTION</td></tr><tr><td>October14,2020</td><td colspan="4">Original Filing</td></tr><tr><td>November16,2023</td><td>Incorporating program Approving Midpoint Modifications.</td><td>changes smandated Review Whitepapers</td><td>by November 16, 2023 Order Recommendations with</td></tr><tr><td>October18,2024</td><td colspan="4">Adjusting communication standards requirements in response to September 20, 2024 Order Approving Modifications to the Make-Ready Program.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# SECTION 2: OVERVIEW  

# EV Make-Ready Program Introduction & Benefits  

The goal of the Electric Vehicle (“EV”) Make-Ready Program (“EV Make-Ready Program”) is to support the development of electric infrastructure and equipment necessary to accommodate increased deployment of EVs within New York State by reducing the upfront costs of building charging stations for light-duty EVs. Through this EV Make-Ready Program, entities seeking to install or participate in the installation of Level 2 (“L2”) and/or Direct Current Fast Charging (“DCFC”) chargers can earn incentives that will offset a large portion of, or in some cases, all, of the infrastructure costs associated with preparing a site for EV charger installation.  

This Amended Program Participant Guide (“Guide”) outlines important details of the EV Make-Ready Program, such as eligibility criteria, enrollment process, and post-enrollment requirements.  

# Background  

The Climate Leadership and Community Protection $\mathsf{A c t}^{1}$ (the “CLCPA”) of 2019 codifies ambitious targets governing economy-wide reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. To support these goals and in alignment with the State’s policy goal on light-duty vehicle electrification outlined in the 2013 multistate zero-emission vehicles (“ZEV”) MOU,2 the New York State Public Service Commission  

(“Commission”) issued an order on July 16, 2020 approving the EV Make-Ready Program.3 Following a Midpoint Review, the Commission issued an order on November 16, 2023 approving modifications to the EV Make-Ready Program.4 The requirements of the 2020 and 2023 Orders will help New York meet its emissions reduction targets by supporting increased adoption of EVs through statewide deployment of over 38,350 L2 plugs and 6,300 DCFC plugs by the end of 2025. The Orders incentivize the Joint Utilities5 and developers to expand the number of charging locations and authorizes $\$1.24$ billion of spending, with $\$372$ million of that amount allocated for plugs benefitting Disadvantaged Communities (as defined below in Section 2).  

The Orders require the Joint Utilities6 to file individual implementation plans along with this common Guide. This Guide provides specific information for Participants to better enable their participation in the EV Make-Ready Program. The Guide may need modification as the EV Make-Ready Program and/or the application process evolve. Revised versions of this Guide will be posted on the Commission’s Document and Matter Management system and at the Joint Utilities’ website, www.jointutilitiesofny.org.  

# SECTION 3: DEFINITIONS  

Approved Contractor: A contractor who has met the utility’s approval criteria to install EV charging infrastructure incentivized through the EV Make-Ready Program.  

Disadvantaged Communities (DAC): Communities that bear burdens of negative public-health effects, environmental pollution, impacts of climate change, and possess certain socioeconomic criteria, or comprise high concentrations of low- and moderate-income households, ECL $\S$ 75-0101(5). The Climate Justice Working Group (CJWG) adopted final criteria to identify DACs in the State on March 27, 2023. The DAC map can be accessed at: https://climate.ny.gov/Resources/Disadvantaged-CommunitiesCriteria.  

Disadvantaged Community Zone (DAC Zone): An area surrounding a Disadvantaged Community within a specified radius. DAC Zones vary by utility and location7:  

 Within a DAC in the Con Edison territory,   
 Within one mile of a DAC in Central Hudson, O&R, or RG&E service territories Within one or two miles of such communities in the NYSEG and National Grid service territories (depending on location).  

EV Make-Ready Program: A program that provides incentives for the installation of electric infrastructure to support the deployment of L2 and DCFC light-duty EV chargers in New York Sta  

Multi-Unit Dwelling (MUD): A multi-unit residential building with five or more dwelling units.  

Participant: An entity that applies for and receives the incentives available through the EV Make-Ready Program. This could be any entity including:  

Developer: An entity responsible for designing, constructing, and commissioning an EV charger site. This entity may also be responsible for owning, managing, and operating the chargers. Equipment Owner: The entity that purchases and owns the EV charging equipment once it is installed. Site Host: The owner of the site on which the EV charging equipment is installed.  The Site Host may or may not be the Equipment Owner. Customer: An entity taking service from the utility. Approved Contractor: As defined above.  

Publicly Accessible: An EV charging station that is accessible to public EV drivers without an access fee during charging.  

# SECTION 4:  

# EV MAKE-READY PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY AND INCENTIVES  

To qualify for receiving incentive payments under the EV Make-Ready Program, the following criteria must be satisfied.  

# Equipment or Infrastructure  

Two categories of equipment or infrastructure are eligible for incentives:  

1. Utility-side Make-Ready Infrastructure: Utility electric infrastructure needed to connect and serve a new EV charger. This may include traditional distribution infrastructure such as stepdown transformers, overhead service lines, and utility meters that will continue to be owned and operated by the utility.   
2. Customer-side Make-Ready Infrastructure: EV equipment or infrastructure necessary to make a site ready to accept an EV charger that is owned by the charging station Developer,  

Equipment Owner, or Site Host. This electric infrastructure may include conductors, trenching, panels, and advanced technologies including energy storage and Automated Load Management Systems needed for the EV charging station.  

Additional costs to future proof a site may also be approved as part of eligible infrastructure. All EV supply equipment must be installed by an Approved Contractor to be eligible for the incentives. EV chargers themselves (including bidirectional chargers) and associated equipment such as power blocks, modules, mounting hardware, co-located distributed generation, or networking fees, are ineligible for incentives under the EV Make-Ready Program.  

# Other Eligibility Requirements and Incentives  

o receive incentives through the EV Make-Ready Program, a project must satisfy the following criteria:  

1. Approved Application: Participant must apply to be accepted into the EV Make-Ready Program by the utility in whose electric service territory the proposed EV charging station will be located. Upon receipt of a completed application, the utility will review, evaluate, and approve applications meeting the applicable criteria.  

2. Station Maturity: Construction of the EV charging station must have commenced on or after July 16, 2020.  

3. Location Capacity: EV charging stations must conform to capacity guidelines including:  

a. EV charging stations must have a minimum of two plugs.8   
b. DCFC sites with more than 30 plugs and/or demand in excess of 6MW in Con Edison's territory or more than 10 plugs and/or demand in excess of 3MW for all other JU territories will be allowed to participate in the EV Make-Ready Program under the condition that developing the site does not cause the utility to incur new business costs greater than those that would have been incurred to develop a site with a maximum demand of 6MW or 3MW, respectively. The number of plugs at locations in excess of 30 plugs in Con Edison’s territory or 10 plugs for all other JU territories shall not exceed 50 percent of the target number of plugs established under the Program for each utility.9  

4. Equipment Eligibility Requirements: Sites that receive Make-Ready incentives must meet specific technical communication standards, including the International Organization for Standardization’s (“ISO”) ISO 15118 and Open Charge Point Protocol’s (“OCPP") OCPP 2.0.1. ISO 15118 -2 and -20 address network and application protocol requirements and -3 addresses the physical and data link layer.10  ISO  15118-capable hardware ensures enough processing power is available for ISO 15118-conformant software to operate. OCPP 2.0.1 requires chargers to  

operate an open-source application protocol for communication between EV charging stations and centrally managed charging station networks.  

i. ISO 15118 hardware conformance must meet the definition specified in the Commission’s petition ruling: a. Hardware conformance with ISO 15118-3 and b. Hardware capable of enabling ISO 15118 -2 or -20.   
ii. ISO 15118 software conformance must meet the definition specified in the Commission’s petition ruling: a. Software conformance with ISO 15118 -2 or -20.  

iii. EVSE must also comply with OCPP 2.0.1 or later.  

5. Equipment Eligibility Timelines: Sites that receive Make-Ready incentives must comply with the communication standards requirements above by the timelines outlined below, depending on the charger level. The Joint Utilities website (https://jointutilitiesofny.org/ev/make-ready) contains information on how Participants can request that their preferred EVSE supplier attest that the EVSE meets the requirements described above. The JU will collect attestations as of the filing date of each utility's updated Implementation Plan, with updated plans required to be filed by October 18, 2024.  

i. Compliance Timelines for L2 Chargers:  

a. EVSE installed at sites committed before June 1, 2025, are not required to comply with any communication technical standards.   
b. EVSE installed at sites committed on or after June 1, 2025, must achieve conformance to all requirements described above in the section titled “Equipment Eligibility Requirements.”11  

ii. Compliance Timelines for DCFC Chargers:  

a. As of the filing date of this Participant Guide, all new commitments for EVSE installed at sites must have equipment that can achieve ISO 15118 hardware conformance (equipment satisfies ISO 15118-3 and ISO 15118 -2 or -20).   
b. Projects committed on or after December 16, 2023, must have equipment that can achieve ISO 15118-2 or -20 software conformance by November 16, 2024. If the project is committed after November 16, 2024, then the project must have equipment that can achieve ISO 15118-2 or -20 software conformance immediately upon project completion.   
c. Beginning on November 16, 2024, all projects must also achieve OCCP hardware conformance (equipment satisfies OCPP 2.0.1 or later).  

Projects developed by the New York Power Authority (“NYPA”) are eligible for two types of incentives: (i) incentives of up to $\$15$ million supporting fast charging development in Regional Economic  

Development Council (“REDC”) regions; and (ii) incentives of up to $\$15$ million supporting DCFC locations under NYPA’s EVolve NY program.  

Participants in the EV Make-Ready Program are eligible to receive incentives covering up to the cost of Make-Ready infrastructure based upon the criteria detailed in Tables 1 and 2. No single Participant may receive incentives for greater than 50 percent of any utility-specific Make-Ready Program incentive budget.  

Table 1: Incentive Level Criteria12   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Incentive Level</td><td colspan="2">Eligible Project Criteria</td></tr><tr><td>Upto100%</td><td>L2 projects located at eligible multi-unit dwellings (MUD) (see Table 2). L2 curbside projects within or adjacent to a DAC.</td><td>Publicly available DCFC projects with standardized plug types located within Disadvantaged Communities (DAC) or Disadvantaged Community Zones, as applicable.13 number of standardized plugs of an equal or greater charging capacity to the proprietary EnhancedincentiveeligibilitybyutilityisdescribedbelowanddetailedinTable2.</td></tr><tr><td>Up to 90%</td><td>·Publicly available L2 and DCFC projects with standardized plug types. ·Publicly available L2 and DCFC projects with proprietary plugs that also have an equal or greater</td><td>·Includes municipal pay-to-park locations and free parking offered while charging.</td></tr><tr><td>Up to 50%</td><td>· Non-public L2 and DCFC projects, such as workplaces or MUDs with restricted access and privately owned pay-to-park lots that require payment for parking while charging. lenba ue apnpui ou op zeun singd eadod ym saod oa pue h end-uou pue oand o or greater number of standardized plugs of an equal or greater charging capacity to the</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">proprietaryplugs. electricity,networkingfees,andotheroperationalcosts.</td><td>Table1isprovidedforillustrativepurposes.Individualutilitiesreservetherighttomakedeterminationsregarding</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Participants in the Make-Ready Program are eligible for an enhanced incentive tier, up-to $100\%$ of eligible costs, if they meet the following criteria (eligibility varies by utility service territory, as shown in Table 2 below):  

1. Publicly accessible non-proprietary DCFC sites within a DAC Zone.14   
2. Statewide, MUD buildings that have an affordable housing regulatory agreement in place with a state, federal or city entity that requires at least $25\%$ of units to be affordable to households at or below $80\%$ of Area or State Median Income; or, alternatively, MUD buildings that can demonstrate via rent roll that at least $25\%$ of the units have a calculated household income no more than $80\%$ of the greater of the Area or State Median Income.  

3. In all utility service territories, except Con Edison, MUD buildings located in a DAC census tract.  

4. Statewide, curbside L2 chargers located in or directly adjacent to DACs. Participants must demonstrate that each curbside charger is associated with a designated EV charging parking space, and that a framework is in place to prevent non-charging vehicles from blocking access to charger.  

Table 2: Enhanced Incentive Eligibility Criteria15   


<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td>Utility Service Territory</td><td>Affordable MUD L2</td><td>Market Rate MUD L2</td><td>Public Curbside L2</td><td>Public DCFC</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Inside of DAC census tract</td><td>Con Edison</td><td rowspan="2">Up to 100%</td><td>Up to 50%</td><td rowspan="2">Up to 100%</td><td rowspan="2">Up to 100%</td></tr><tr><td>Central Hudson, National Grid, NYSEG, O&R, RG&E</td><td>Up to 100%</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Outside of DAC census tract*</td><td>Con Edison</td><td rowspan="2">Up to 100%</td><td rowspan="2">Up to 50%</td><td rowspan="2">Up to 90%</td><td>Up to 90% Up to 100% within a 1- or 2-mile radius of</td></tr><tr><td>Central Hudson, National Grid, NYSEG, O&R, RG&E</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">*The DAC Zones vary by utility and location. Please refer to utility websites for more information on DAC eligibility.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# SECTION 5:  

# APPLICATION & ENROLLMENT  

Participants interested in applying for the EV Make-Ready Program may access the necessary application form and supporting information online at each utility’s website, as indicated in Table 3 below. Participants in the EV Make-Ready Program may also participate in other incentive programs that each utility may have available over time, as long as permitted.  

Table 3: EV Make-Ready Program Application Form Location   


<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Utility Program Application Web Address</td></tr><tr><td>Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corporation</td><td>https://www.cenhud.com/my-energy/electric- vehicles/EV-make-ready-program/</td></tr><tr><td>Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.</td><td>Coned.com/powerready</td></tr><tr><td>New York State Electric & Gas Corporation</td><td>https://www.nyseg.com/smartenergy/electricvehicle s/ev-programs-for-your-business</td></tr><tr><td>National Grid</td><td>https://www.nationalgridus.com/Upstate-NY- Business/Energy-Saving-Programs/Electric-Vehicle- Charging-Station-Program</td></tr><tr><td>Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc.</td><td>https://www.oru.com/en/our-energy- future/technology-innovation/electric-vehicles/new- york/commercial-ev-drivers/power-ready-program</td></tr><tr><td>Rochester Gas and Electric Corporation</td><td>https://www.rge.com/smartenergy/electricvehicles/e v-programs-for-your-business</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Approved Contractors  

Participants are required to use utility-approved contractors as a condition of program participation. Lists of Approved Contractors are available on the EV Make-Ready Program web page, located at each utility’s website, and on the Joint Utilities’ website.16  

# Becoming an Approved Contractor  

To become an Approved Contractor for the EV Make-Ready Program, interested entities must complete and submit an Approved Contractor Application to each utility in whose territory the contractor is interested in working. The Approved Contractor Application is available on the Joint Utilities’ website.  

Within thirty days of receiving a completed application, the Joint Utilities will review the applications, agreements, and supporting documentation and determine if the contractor is accepted into the EV Make-Ready Program as an Approved Contractor. The Joint Utilities will notify the applicant of their application status via email. Upon acceptance, the Joint Utilities will place the Approved Contractor on the list of approved contractors for potential Participants in the Program.  

Entities may apply to become an Approved Contractor at any time. The Joint Utilities will provide the basis for rejecting an entity as an Approved Contractor and permit that entity to correct deficiencies in their application and re-apply. Each utility retains the right to place Approved Contractors on probation or remove them from the EV Make-Ready Program for nonperformance.  

# SECTION 6:OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS  

The EV Make-Ready Program requires that all sites meet a specific minimum set of performance standards, which will be tracked and reported by the Participant as part of the overall reporting requirements outlined in Section 6 below. These operational standards are as follows:  

 DCFC plugs must be operational 95 percent of the time (annually);   
 DCFC charging stations must be operational 99 percent of the time (annually), with a minimum of 50 percent of the plugs considered to be “up” at all times;   
 All charging stations in the EV Make-Ready Program must operate for a minimum of five years; Ownership of EV charging stations may change or stations may be upgraded during the five-year term, as long as the number of plugs and the capacity of the station does not decrease, and the site continues to meet all performance and reporting obligations of the Program; and All chargers in the EV Make-Ready Program (committed after January 12, 2024 )must display easily identifiable, up-to-date contact information for the EV charging service provider.  

# SECTION 7:  

# REPORTING REQUIREMENTS  

The Joint Utilities are expected to report on granular, confidential data outside of the annual report filings and therefore Participants are expected to make the information available on a quarterly basis, or potentially more frequently if necessary and feasible. Specific information required in each category is listed below including an indication of whether the Joint Utilities or the Participant is responsible for providing the data.  

Program Participation: (Provided by the Joint Utilities)  

o Reporting year;   
o Site ID;   
o Census Tract;   
o Whether the site is located in a geographic Disadvantaged Community;   
o Percent of service applications that have matured into operating stations;   
o Number of station owners participating; o Number of sites for which incentives were issued;   
o Number of plugs installed;   
o Aggregated kW Nameplate Capacity;   
o Infrastructure costs (broken out by customer and company infrastructure, allocated by make-ready costs and new business costs);   
o Incentive levels a site received (up-to-50, 90, or 100 percent); and   
o Total incentives paid per site.   
o Whether the site received funding from the Medium- and Heavy-Duty Pilot.17 o Whether the site received funding from the Transit Authority Make-Ready Program. o Whether the site received Operating Cost Relief from a Demand Charge Alternative Program.  

Plug and charging session data, including: (Provided by the Participant)  

o Number of sessions daily;   
o Start and stop times of each charge;   
o Amount of time each vehicle is plugged in per session;   
o Peak kW per charging site (aggregated monthly per site; including site capacity, charger nameplate capacity, and peak kW load management adjustment);   
o Annual aggregated kWh per charging site;   
o Annual aggregated percent utilization per site;   
o Annual aggregated hours charging; and   
o Plug outage information (the number and duration of outages, differentiated by expected outage and unexpected outages).  

All data subject to the reporting requirements identified in this section will be provided, at minimum, on a quarterly basis to the Joint Utilities after a third-party consultant designated by the Joint Utilities anonymizes and aggregates the data.  

Consistent with the 2020 and 2023 Orders, program Participants that fail to meet the operational requirements or fail to provide the required data will not be eligible for new Make-Ready Program incentives and will either be subject to claw back of the make-ready payments received or revocation of service so that the station can be operated by an alternate market Participant.18 Additionally, the Joint Utilities will develop a preferred network list as part of a Data Reporting Compliance Plan by March 1,  

2024. After March 1, 2024, networks will be given more information about how they can be added to the preferred network list, and how to maintain their status on the list. The Joint Utilities will provide Participants with the preferred network list and educational materials about data collection and the consequences for failing to provide the data.  

The Joint Utilities will publish a publicly accessible tracker that monitors both the committed and completed L2 and DCFC plug installations, as well as committed and completed L2 and DCFC budgets reported as separate dollar figures and by service territory and will designate, at a minimum, incentives and plug totals committed and installed to benefit Disadvantaged Communities. The tracker will be updated monthly and made available at the Joint Utilities website at jointutilitiesofny.org/ev/makeready.  

# SECTION 8: PROGRAM SUPPORT  

For questions about the eligibility/application process, or the ongoing requirements for Program participation, please submit inquiries to the addresses below.  

Table 4: EV Make-Ready Program Support Contact Information   


<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Utility Program Support Email Address</td></tr><tr><td>Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corporation</td><td>EVMakeready@cenhud.com</td></tr><tr><td>Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.</td><td>EVMRP@coned.com</td></tr><tr><td>NewYorkStateElectric&GasCorporation</td><td>EVPrograms@nyseg.com</td></tr><tr><td>National Grid</td><td>EVNationalGridUNY@nationalgrid.com</td></tr><tr><td>Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc.</td><td>ev@oru.com</td></tr><tr><td>Rochester Gas & Electric Corporation</td><td>EVPrograms@rge.com</td></tr></table></body></html>  