# Solar Electric Installation Requirements Developed by Energy Trust of Oregon  

V 20.2  

# Acknowledgments  

Energy Trust would like to acknowledge the important contribution made by Christopher Dymond. His tireless efforts coordinating feedback and consensus from a large group of Oregon solar industry experts provided the necessary input to assist us in developing the Installation Requirements. We would also like to thank the team of interested Oregonians who provided many hours of help reviewing Program details, outlines and specifications.  

# Revisions  

Energy Trust updates these installation requirements annually. Many thanks to the industry members and technical specialists that have invested their time to help keep this document current. Revisions from the previous version are summarized in the table below.  

June 2017 Revisions   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Section</td><td>Revision</td></tr><tr><td>2.1.4</td><td>incentiveapplicationpacket</td></tr><tr><td>2.1.5</td><td>electricalschematicdiagram</td></tr><tr><td>2.1.5</td><td>Added “manufacturer and model number" to the list of information that should be provided aboutallinstalledequipment</td></tr><tr><td>2.1.6</td><td>Added tilt and orientation of solar arrays to list of required information to include on physicallayoutdiagram</td></tr><tr><td>2.3.4</td><td>Updated to include photovoltaic mounting systems and clamping devices and Energy StorageSystems(ESS)</td></tr><tr><td>2.3.5</td><td>used as shown in the manufacturer's instructions and these Installation Requirements</td></tr><tr><td>2.3.6</td><td>Added requirement that Energy Storage Systems (ESS) have a minimum 10 year warrantyagainstmanufacturer'sdefects</td></tr><tr><td>2.3.21</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2.5.2</td><td>Added requirement when using remote shade analysis to determine Total Solar Resource Fraction(TSRF)</td></tr><tr><td>2.6.6</td><td>revieweddesign</td></tr><tr><td>2.6.7</td><td>Added requirement that eachsolarsystem shallbecapable offull operation at the time of Verification and compliant with minimum safety standards.</td></tr><tr><td>2.8</td><td>Changed title of section to Battery Energy Storage Systems</td></tr><tr><td>3.0</td><td>Renumbered Customer Manual section to improve clarity</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Table of Contents  

Revisions.   
1.0 Purpose.. 1   
2.0 System Requirements 1   
2.1 General.. 1   
2.2 Materials.. 2   
2.3 Equipment and Installation.. 3   
2.4 Array Mounting . 5   
2.5 Solar Acces... 6   
2.6 Performance .. 6   
2.7 Production Meter .. 7   
2.8 Battery Energy Storage Systems . 8   
3.0 Customer Manual .. 9   
3.1 General.. 9   
3.2 Required Items . 9   
3.3 Optional Items... 9  

# 1.0 Purpose  

This Solar Electric Installation Requirements document details the requirements and minimum criteria for a solar electric (“photovoltaic” or “PV”) system (“System”) installed by a Solar Electric Program trade ally under Energy Trust's Solar Electric Program (“Program”).  

The purpose of these installation requirements is to help promote the performance and longevity of systems that receive Energy Trust incentive funding. Energy Trust reserves the right to require compliance with installation specifications that may exceed manufacturer or code requirements. Any variations from the Program's installation requirements shall receive prior approval from Energy Trust.  

# 2.0 System Requirements  

# 2.1 General  

System shall be grid-connected and installed on real property in Oregon that receives electrical service directly from Portland General Electric or Pacific Power.  

2.1.2 System shall meet local utility interconnection and net metering requirements, if applicable.  

2.1.3 The installation shall be of industry standard and workmanlike quality.  

2.1.4 System design shall be documented with a complete PowerClerk project record and incentive agreement that accurately describes the project participants and system design, including:  

a. Incentive agreement signed and dated by authorized signatory   
b. Incentive agreement Solar Electric System Summary generated with current version of system design   
c. PowerClerk component description that lists manufacturer and model number of all system components (module, inverter, energy storage system (ESS), battery, etc.) for current version of system design   
d. PowerClerk component description shows correct tilt and orientation for each solar array   
e. PowerClerk project record specifies correct utility for the project site  

2.1.5 System design shall be documented with a schematic diagram that accurately describes all electrical components to be installed (e.g., modules, inverters, energy storage systems (ESS), disconnects, and meters) and the wiring design. Diagram should include:  

a. Manufacturer and model number of all system components (module, inverter, energy storage system (ESS), battery, etc.)   
b. Module series/parallel wiring   
c. Wire run from array to point of utility interconnection, including applicable subpanels, with pre-existing wiring or sub-panels used in the AC run clearly labeled   
d. Conductor and ground wire types and sizing  

(2.1.5 continued on next page)  

e. Conduit types and sizing f. Voltage drop calculations g. AC and DC breaker sizing  

2.1.6 System design shall be documented with a physical layout diagram that accurately describes locations of major system components. Diagram should include:  

a. Layout of roof or installation location including existing obstructions b. Tilt and orientation for each solar array   
c. Locations of installed modules, inverter(s), and energy storage systems. d. Locations of pre-existing photovoltaic or wind components   
e. Locations of submitted TSRF measurement(s)   
f. Locations of all applicable electrical panels, meters and disconnects.  

2.1.7 System shall be properly permitted, inspected, and in compliance with all applicable building and electrical codes.  

2.1.8 System equipment installers shall be licensed according to the Oregon Building Codes Division and shall be working for a contractor that is licensed according to the Oregon Construction and Contractors Board.  

# 2.2 Materials  

.2.1 Materials used outdoors shall be sunlight/UV-resistant and listed for outdoor locations.  

2.2.2 Materials used shall be designed to withstand the temperatures to which they are exposed.  

2.2.3 Dissimilar metals that have galvanic action (such as aluminum and copper) shall be isolated from one another using industry standard practices (such as properly-rated grounding lugs).  

2.2.4 Aluminum shall not be placed in direct contact with concrete materials.  

2.2.5 Fasteners used to secure modules and racking equipment shall be stainless steel. For substructure components, only high-quality fasteners shall be used (stainless steel is preferred). Stainless steel bolts shall be coated with an anti-seize lubricant to prevent galling and allow for removal during system maintenance or repair.  

2.2.6 Structural members shall be either:  

a. Aluminum   
b. Hot-dip galvanized steel per ASTM standard A123 equivalent or better.   
c. Coated or painted steel (not allowed in marine environments).   
d. Stainless steel (recommended for marine environments).   
e. Pre-approved nonmetallic material. Nonmetallic mounting systems listed to the UL 2703 standard may be submitted for application review without pre-approval.   
f. Outdoor rated pressure treated lumber or laminated beams: i. Shall be installed using roofing flashing methods to prevent water pooling and UV exposure on top surface. ii. Shall not be installed in direct contact with roofing material, soil, or where exposed to extended periods of pooled water.  

2.2.7 For a residential, roof-mounted array, rails used for mounting modules shall be aluminum or stainless steel.  

# 2.3 Equipment and Installation  

2.3.1 All installed system components shall be new.  

2.3.2 All components shall be mounted securely.  

2.3.3 All building penetrations shall be sealed and fire resistance maintained:  

a. To prevent intrusion by insects, vermin, or weather, all penetrations to building shell (walls, etc.) resulting from the installation of the solar system shall be permanently sealed with appropriate water and pest-proof materials.   
b. Any penetrations through fire-rated assemblies shall be sealed and shall not reduce the fire resistance required by local codes and standards.  

2.3.4 All electrical equipment shall meet appropriate current electrical standards and shall be listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory (e.g., UL, ETL)  

a. Inverters shall meet IEEE 929, 1374 and 1547 (listed to UL 1741 SA) or their successor standards and shall be certified by the California Energy Commission1.   
b. Photovoltaic modules shall meet IEEE 1262 (listed to UL 1703) or their successor standards and shall be certified by the California Energy Commission2.   
c. Photovoltaic mounting systems and clamping devices used as part of a grounding system shall be listed to UL 2703 or successor standard.   
d. Energy Storage Systems shall be listed to UL 9540 or successor standard except with program pre-approval  

2.3.5 All listed and/or labeled electrical equipment shall be installed and used as shown in the included instructions and these Installation Requirements  

2.3.6 Manufacturer warranties shall cover:  

a. Inverter for a minimum of 5 years against manufacturer’s defects   
b. PV modules for a minimum of 20 years against degradation of performance below $80\%$ of original output under standard test conditions   
c. Energy Storage Systems (ESS) for a minimum of 10 years against manufacturer’s defects  

2.3.7 All electrical equipment shall be listed for the voltage and current ratings necessary for the application.  

2.3.8 Equipment shall not be modified such that it voids the listing or manufacturer warranty.  

2.3.9 All required over-current protection shall be included in the system and accessible for maintenance. The inspection or maintenance of combiner or feed-through junction boxes shall not require the removal or displacement of modules or other obstructions.  

2.3.10 Means of disconnection shall be provided at the inverter(s) such that the inverter(s) can be safely isolated from all sources of power (DC input and AC output circuits) for service or in an emergency and:  

a. To allow the inverter electronics to be removed for service, disconnect switches shall be physically separable from the inverter chassis containing the main power electronics.   
b. To allow safe, quick operation, the means of disconnection shall be at the location of the inverter or—for AC disconnection only—within sight of the inverter with permanent signage providing the location of the disconnect per OESC 690.56(B).   
c. Disconnect switches shall be listed and designed for load-break operation (e.g., blade-type or circuit breaker). Pull-out style disconnects shall not be used.   
d. Microinverters shall be installed per the requirements of the local jurisdiction (e.g., may require installation of a rooftop AC disconnect, if roof-mounted).  

2.3.11 All electrical terminations shall be torqued to specification, secured, and strain-relieved as appropriate. Wire ends shall be coated with terminating compound prior to termination to prevent loosening of the connection over time.  

2.3.12 All cables, conduit, exposed conductor s, and electrical boxes shall be secured and supported according to code requirements and in accordance with their performance ratings (i.e., NEMA). It is recommended that high current carrying conductors 4 AWG and larger be megohm tested to confirm integrity of insulation.  

2.3.13 Conduit used for DC conductors shall be electrical metallic tubing (EMT). Flexible steel conduit or metal clad (MC) cable may be used as an alternative where allowed by the Oregon Electrical Specialty Code (OESC). PVC conduit may be used below grade, and above grade in marine climates where approved by the local jurisdiction.  

2.3.14 Array equipment grounding conductors (EGC) and DC grounding electrode conductors (GEC) shall be copper and shall be either minimum 6 AWG or protected from physical damage and sized to conform to the Oregon Electrical Specialty Code (OESC):  

a. Equipment grounding conductor (EGC) shall be sized and protected according to OESC 690.45(A) and 690.46.   
b. Grounding electrode conductor (GEC) shall be sized and protected according to OESC 690.47(C) and 250.64(B).   
c. If a single conductor is used for the AC EGC and the DC GEC, conductor sizing and protection shall conform to all of the OESC sections listed above.   
d. Trade ally is responsible for identifying any additional OESC sections that may apply.  

2.3.15 Twist-on wire connectors shall not be used on DC conductors or ground wires. Instead, these wire connections shall be made using terminal strips in combiner boxes, feed through blocks in junction boxes, or other similar mechanical wire splicing devices. When outdoors or exposed to moisture, twist-on wire connectors used for AC connections shall be listed for usage in a damp/wet location.  

2.3.16 Junction boxes and combiner boxes shall be listed and suitable for their environment and conditions of use. Boxes used in damp or wet locations shall have water-tight or properly flashed covers, screw holes and conduit connections.  

2.3.17 Permanent, UV-resistant labels with engraved, stamped or printed text (i.e., not handwritten) shall be applied to system components where signage is required by the Oregon Electrical Specialty Code. When required, inverter disconnect label shall be placed on or near the disconnect box and not on the inverter chassis.  

2.3.18 Readily accessible disconnect switch covers (not switch handles) shall be secured closed for safety (i.e., padlock, zip tie, etc.). Because this may interfere with access during an inspection, the means to secure the cover plate may be left with the customer with instructions for use  

2.3.19 Inverters shall be installed according to manufacturer's specifications and:  

a. Inverter shall not be installed in an unconditioned attic.   
b. Inverter shall not be installed with direct sun exposure that will impact its performance (i.e., on a wall with an azimuth between $120^{\circ}$ and $300^{\circ}$ , unless permanently shaded between the hours of 12:00pm and 5:00pm).   
c. Inverter shall be installed in an accessible location.  

2.3.20 Micro-inverters shall include the installation of manufacturer-provided equipment that allows local monitoring of system performance and identification of inverter errors.  

2.3.21 Where PV source and output circuits are installed in readily accessible locations, circuit conductors shall be guarded or installed in a raceway.  

Note: Guards typically include close fencing of the entire array, of sufficient height to render the area inaccessible, or, installation of materials to the mounting structure intended to screen and protect the conductors. If close fencing is installed the fence shall be minimum 5-feet high with a secured gate except with prior program approval.  

# 2.4 Array Mounting  

2.4.1 If roof-mounted, the roofing material shall have at least 10 years of useful life remaining to ensure the roof will not need repair or replacement early in the System’s operational life. If in question, evidence of this requirement may be met by providing either a copy of a recent roof inspection or a receipt showing the date of the most recent roof replacement.  

2.4.2 If roof-mounted, the roof system shall be capable of handling additional load of the System. Augmentation of the structure may be required by building codes.  

2.4.3 Array racking and mounting systems shall be engineered and installed to meet local wind, snow and seismic load requirements.  

2.4.4 All roof penetrations shall be made watertight using roofing industry-standard methods of flashing that protect the warranty of the roof. Sealant compounds used shall be appropriate for the roofing material and application and shall not be the sole method of waterproofing.  

Note: For asphalt shingle roofs this shall be accomplished with the use of some type of flat metal flange that extends around a penetration and is installed completely under shingles on the upslope side of a penetration, with the flange extending beyond the headlap of the roof covering. The bottom flange should then overlap the shingles on the downslope side. (adapted from 2014 NRCA roofing manual)  

2.4.5 All mounting hardware shall be installed according to manufacturer specifications and these Installation Requirements.  

# 2.5 Solar Access  

2.5.1 Solar resource shall be measured and correctly documented with an Energy Trust sun chart or approved shading analysis tool according to Energy Trust requirements. Details on using sun charts and a list of approved shading analysis tools are available on the Energy Trust Solar Trade Ally Forms & Resources webpage3.  

2.5.2 Total Solar Resource Fraction (“TSRF”) shall be calculated for each site and meet the following requirements based on the measurement tool used:  

a. On-site shade analysis: TSRF of $75\%$ or greater at all points on the array for string inverters. Projects may include individual modules with a TSRF of less than $75\%$ if the modules are electrically isolated from one another using microinverters or other pre-approved technology; however, those modules that do not meet the $75\%$ requirement will not be eligible for program incentives.   
b. Remote Shade analysis:  Each plane of the array(s) have a TSRF of 80 percent or greater to be eligible for incentives. Trade allies must submit a solar resource evaluation using an approved remote site analysis tool. For detailed instructions on using these tools and displaying the required information, please refer to the Energy Trust solar program website.   
c. For systems over 25kW in size minimal inter-row shading may be permissible with the Program’s pre-approval.  

2.5.3 It is recommended that the System be installed for optimal annual performance and in an aesthetic manner that blends in with the building architecture. Small trade-offs in system performance due to sub-optimal tilt and orientation can greatly enhance the aesthetics of the installation and thereby increase long term public support for solar.  

# 2.6 Performance  

2.6.1 Array shall be sized to operate within the current, voltage and power limits approved and warranted by the inverter manufacturer and shall not exceed $135\%$ of inverter output power rating based on the DC nameplate capacity of the modules at STC. The temperature-adjusted array voltage shall remain within the inverter limits at the extreme high and low temperatures expected at the installation site. Where available and appropriate, ASHRAE dry-bulb design temperatures may be used (use the $0.4\%$ high temperature and extreme mean minimum temperature). In areas where ASHRAE data is not available (e.g., at higher elevations), historical record high and low temperatures should be used.  

At mid-day, module temperatures are typically much higher than ambient conditions. When calculating voltage at the extreme high temperature, use the appropriate adder from Table 1. Systems on a roof that are tilted up $10^{\circ}$ or more from the roof plane may be considered “Rack” mounted. See Energy Trust PV system sizing spreadsheet3 for temperature data.  

(2.6.1 continued on next page)  

Table 1. Temperature Adders for High Temperature Voltage Calculation   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Array Mounting</td><td>Temperature Adder</td></tr><tr><td>Roof</td><td>35 °℃</td></tr><tr><td>Rack</td><td>30 °℃</td></tr><tr><td>Pole</td><td>25°℃</td></tr></table></body></html>  

2.6.2 Wires shall be sized to keep voltage drop at or below $2\%$ in the DC conductors from the array to the inverter. Voltage drop will be calculated using temperature-adjusted $\mathsf{V}_{\mathsf{m p}}$ (max power voltage) of the array for the location’s average high temperature adjusted with the temperature adders in Table 1 above.  

2.6.3 Wires shall be sized to keep voltage drop at or below $2\%$ in the AC conductors from the inverter to the point of connection. Example points of connection include the distribution panel that contains the main service disconnect(s), a supply-side tap, a pre-existing subpanel with other loads, a generator transfer switch, or a switchgear.  

2.6.4 AC voltage at the inverter shall be within the inverter’s operating limits. At locations were utility service is higher than typical voltage, this may require a larger AC wire size or a shorter AC run than allowed under Section 2.6.3 to minimize voltage rise between the point of utility interconnection and the inverter.  

2.6.5 Voltage mismatch caused by partial shading of the array, different orientations of strings within the array and by variations in module voltages shall be minimized, allowing the inverter to operate within its maximum power point window. Modules in a single string shall be installed at the same tilt and orientation or with no more than $10^{\circ}$ variation.  

2.6.6 Each solar system shall be completed in accordance with reviewed design.  

2.6.7 Each solar system shall be capable of full operation at the time of Verification and compliant with minimum safety standards.  

Note: For solar systems that require access to online monitoring to determine if the system is capable of full operation access to the online monitoring must be available at the time of Verification.  

# 2.7 Production Meter  

2.7.1 Each solar system shall have the ability to measure total AC system production in kilowatt-hours with at least $+5\%$ accuracy using one of the following methods:  

a. A production meter built-in to the inverter. It shall appear on the List of Eligible Inverters provided by the California Energy Commission4 as having an approved built-in meter.  

# (2.7.1 continued on next page)  

b. A system performance meter (i.e., a microinverter monitor). It shall appear on the List of Eligible System Performance Meters provided by the California Energy Commission5.   
c. A hard wired production meter. It shall appear on the List of Eligible System Performance Meters provided by the California Energy Commission5.Refurbished meters may be used with the Program’s pre-approval.  

2.7.2 Multiple-inverter systems may either combine output through a dedicated sub-panel from which the output is metered or use one electric meter for each inverter.  

7.3 When a hard wired production meter is installed, the solar system meter shall have a UV-resistant label identifying it as the Customer Owned Solar Generator Output.  

2.7.4 All hard wired meters shall be set at 000000 or 999999 at time of shipment to the installer to ensure accurate and consistent “start” readings for every system.  

# 2.8 Battery Energy Storage Systems  

Batteries shall be located in a secure enclosure that meets seismic requirements and is weatherproof as needed.  

2 Access to live battery terminals shall be limited per Oregon Electrical Specialty Code.  

2.8.3 Flooded lead acid batteries shall be housed in an enclosure with adequate spill containment and vented to the outdoors, with a nearby clearly marked OSHA 29 approved safety kit.  

Battery and inverter cables shall be properly sized, with secured crimps and lugs on ends. Lugs and terminals shall be listed for the wire type used.  

5 Charge controller and inverter settings shall be appropriate for the installation’s batteries, and set for grid-tied optimum performance.  

6 Temperature compensation probes for inverter and/or charge controller shall be installed to control battery charge properly.  

2.8.7 Array configuration shall operate within current and voltage limits of charge controller, accounting for temperature-adjusted array voltage under record high and low temperatures for that location.  

2.8.8 For hybrid systems utilizing wind or micro-hydro turbines in addition to PV, battery overcharge protection using turbine regulation and/or diversion controller and diversion load shall be installed.  

2.8.9 Ground fault protection shall be added to the System if required by code and not included in the inverter.  

2.8.10 Customer manual shall include instructions for operation, maintenance and safety procedures for batteries, charge controller and inverter.  

2.8.11 Systems with lithium ion batteries must use an appropriate battery management system.  

# 3.0 Customer Manual  

# 3.1 General  

3.1.1 Upon completion of installation, solar trade ally shall instruct the customer on proper system operation and maintenance and shall provide the customer with a manual (the “Customer Manual”) that includes, at a minimum, the required items listed in Section 3.2 below.  

3.1.2 The Customer Manual shall be bound in a durable fashion.  

3.1.3 The Customer Manual along with the system permit(s) (approved electrical and, where applicable, building permit) shall be available during the onsite system verification.  

# 3.2 Required Items  

3.2.1 System Overview Page that summarizes:  

a. System’s size and operating conditions   
b. Make and model of system components (modules, inverter(s), batteries, energy storage system(s), etc.)   
c. System start-up and shut-down procedures   
d. Emergency and service contact information  

3.2.2 Electrical As-built Diagram that accurately depicts:  

a. All electrical components (e.g., modules, inverters, energy storage systems (ESS), disconnects, and meters), plus main service panel and utility connection.   
b. Module series/parallel wiring, conductor and ground wire types and sizing, conduit types and sizing, and voltage drop calculations.   
c. Inputs from existing wind or solar systems, if present  

3.2.3 Contractor Warranty covering all parts and labor for a minimum of two years  

3.2.4 Manufacturer Data Sheets for modules, inverter(s), and energy storage systems (ESS)  

3.2.5 If a hard wired production meter is not installed, include an informational sheet describing how to read the system’s total kilowatt-hour production from the inverter, system performance meter, or online monitoring system (i.e., microinverter monitor). See Energy Trust Solar Trade Ally Forms & Resources webpage6 for examples.  

# 3.3 Optional Items  

3.3.1 The following optional items are recommended to be included in the Custom Manual and/or provided to the customer in digital format (PDF):  

a. Inverter Owner’s Manual   
b. Manufacturers’ Warranties   
c. Energy Trust Incentive Application   
d. Utility Interconnection/Net Metering Agreement   
e. Parts and Source List with component serial numbers   
f. Manufacturer Data Sheets for other system components  