# How to Apply  

1. Read the Terms and Conditions at www.mid.org to determine if you are eligible for a rebate.   
2. Locate the item(s) and Rebate I.D. that you are applying for in this catalog.   
3. Purchase and install the qualifying product(s) in your home.   
4. Complete, sign and submit your application, with all necessary documents, within 90 days of purchase.   
5. Submit application and all required documentation to: Energy Services By Mail: Send application to: P.O. Box 4060, Modesto, CA 95352 By E-Mail: Send application to: energyrebates@mid.org with documents in PDF format and include your installation address in the subject line.   
6. Include copy of the dated purchase receipt, contract, or invoice marked paid in full for all products.  

# \*Incomplete applications will not be processed\*  

# Applicant Information (please print using blue or black ink)  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="4">Applicant Email</td><td colspan="2">Applicant Phone #</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Customer/Tenant Name (as it appears on your MID bill)</td><td colspan="2">MID Account #</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Installation Address</td><td colspan="2">City/Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Landlord Rebate - Landlord Name (W-9 Required)</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Landlord Mailing Address</td><td colspan="2">City/State/Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Rebate Summary (see catalog for rebate ID numbers and additional requirements at www.mid.org)</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">FORWINDOWS,SUNSCREENS,ORATTICINSULATION</td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td colspan="2">Rebate $ /SQ FT. (B)</td><td>Rebate Total (A x B)</td></tr><tr><td>Rebate ID</td><td colspan="2">Manufacturer Model #</td><td># SQ. FT. (A)</td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>FORALLOTHERQUALIFYINGPRODUCTS</td><td colspan="8"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8"># UNITS (A)</td></tr><tr><td>Rebate ID</td><td colspan="4">Manufacturer Model #</td><td colspan="2">Rebate $ /SQ FT. (B)</td><td>Rebate Total (A x B)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="3"></td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">(Most Rebates will show as a line item credit on customer bill) TOTAL REBATE AMOUNT $</td></tr><tr><td colspan="7"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">Signature (Customer/Landlord) Date</td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">For MID Use Only</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">TRACKING Project Number</td><td colspan="3">INSPECTION PAYMENTAPPROVAL</td><td colspan="2" rowspan="3">Rebate Amount</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td><td colspan="2">DATE: Waived</td><td colspan="2">AlternativePaymentReason</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3" rowspan="2">Date Received Application Received via aMailEmail ES Rep Assigned</td><td colspan="3">eO Notes (required) Status</td><td colspan="2" rowspan="2">Solar Power Up Landlord W-9</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Approved  Denied ES Rep</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Notes: ES Supervisor Return Application Date:</td><td colspan="2">Date Date</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Modesto Irrigation District's Home Rebate program offers residential customers incentives for the purchase of qualifying energy efficient products installed in existing homes.  

# REBATE REMINDERS  

Refer to the Home Rebate Catalog for qualifying items and how to apply. 2. Read the Terms and Conditions for rebates below. 3. Submit complete rebate application package to:  

MID Energy Services PO B0X 4060 Modesto, CA 95352  

For questions on rebates contact: energyrebates@mid.org 209-526-7339  

# TERMSANDCONDITIONS  

# General  

MID reserves the right, without prior notice,to periodicallyreview and make changes to rebate program terms and conditions, and to determine final program eligibility. MID makes no representation or warrantyandassumesnoliability with respect to quality, safety, performance,orotheraspect of design, system or appliance installed pursuant to this agreement and expressly disclaims any such representation,warranty or liability. All product installations that receivei rebate are subject to MID inspection. Rebates are issued at the sole discretion of MID.  

# Availability  

Rebate amount is based on the   
program.   
Offering and funding levels applicable on the date the application is receivec and is offered on a first come-first   
served basis, subject to availability of funds.   
MID rebate funding is not guaranteed until the application has been   
approved.   
Rebates areavailableonlyfor   
products that are not required   
by or are in excess of CA Title 24   
requirements, when applicable. MID mayrequest Title 24 compliance   
documentation before approving any rebate.  

# Eligibility  

Rebates are provided for qualifying product(s) installed in a residential dwelling receiving electricity from MID to customers in good financial standing with MID (subject to MID approval). Qualifying products must be installed before submitting your application. It is the responsibility of the contractor and customer to ensure installation is done in accordancewithall applicable city, state, and national standards, codes and ordinances as enforced by the local compliance authority  

Productscanonlyreceive onerebatefrom MID during its useful life period. Reapplicationforrebatewillnotbe accepted   
during this period.   
MIDreserves the right torequest specific manufacturer specifications and/or data for any product.   
The application and supporting materials should belegible,submitted toMIDwithin 90daysofpurchasedate.   
Owners ofrentalunitsshould submit   
a separaterebate application for each   
service address.   
For newly constructed homes, qualifying measures, or products purchased and   
installed after the certificate of occupancy has been issued by the city or county are eligible for rebate under this program.   
Previously owned equipment does not qualify for a MlD rebate.  

# Eligibility  

Only complete applications will be processed for rebates. Complete   
applications include signature,   
proof(s)ofpurchase,andrequired documentationforallproducts   
referenced in the application.   
For incomplete applications, MID   
will notify customer of missing   
documentation. If the required   
documentation is not received by MID within 30 days, the application will be voided.   
Rebates take six to eight weeks to process.  

# Purchase  

Purchase and install qualifying product(s) new at retail price. See catalog for item details. For all qualifying measures, the product purchase date is determined by proof of purchase documents, such as the custom-er acceptance date of a contractfor services,a detailed itemized and dated paid invoice, contract, or the printed date on a store cash register receipt. Proof of purchase document(s) must include price per product and detailed payment terms or "type of transaction" (i.e., cash, credit, etc.).  

# Payment  

Rebates will be issued as a credit on the customer's MID bill. Landlords that submit for rebates on their property will receive a check. (See required w-9 information below).   
IRS W-9 form is required for rebates issued by check. IRs W-9 form must be current version. In requesting a   
W-9 MID makes no inference the   
rebate is or is not subject to Federal and/or State income tax reporting.   
Applicant is responsible for contacting a qualified tax advisor to determine tax liability. MlD is not responsible for any taxes that may be imposed as a result of these rebates.   
In no case will MID pay more than   
$100\%$ of the eligible costs of the   
qualifying product(s) (excludes   
installation, taxes, shipping and   
handling, warranty costs, and minus any funds received from other   
sources).   
Funds received from other sources   
mayreduce therebate amountfrom MID. Applicants are required to inform MID of any other incentives for which they have applied and/or may receive. These sources include all third-party energy efficiency programs offering direct funding, financing, or rebates (other than tax credits). The funded amount(s) will be deducted from the actual and documented Project Cost and the maximum accrued rebate will not exceed net Project Costs.  