# Sustainable Building Tax Credit (SBTC)  

Home > Tax Incentives > Sustainable Building Tax Credit (SBTC)  

# Sustainable Building Tax Credit (SBTC)  

The Sustainable Building Tax Credit (SBTC) reflects the state's intention to incentivize cuttingedge sustainable building practices, as well as the use of energy-efficient products. There are two types of tax credits available under the program—-one for installation of certain energy-efficient products in existing residences and another for commercial renovation and new construction projects.  

Click here to apply for the energy-conserving products credit.  

Click here to apply for the new construction (residential or commercial) or commercial renovationcredit.  

These credits are available to New Mexico taxpayers filing either a personal income or corporate tax return.  

The credits for installing energy-conserving products went into effect on January 1, 2021, and applications for those credits can be submitted now via this online portal for products.  

Before accessing the online application for energy-conserving products, please read the application instructions and checklist to verify you have all of the required documentation ready for upload with your application. Energy-Conserving Products include certain air source and ground source heat-pumps, heat pump water heaters, windows, doors, insulation upgrades, and electric vehicle charging equipment.  

The credits for new construction or large commercial renovations went into effect on January 1, 2022, and applications for those credits can be submitted now via this online portal for new construction or commercial renovation.  

Please note that the Legislature placed annual program caps on the total amount of tax credits that ECMD can approve under this program. So, it is important to submit your application as soon as possible. There also are caps on the amount of tax credit that can be awarded for each energyconserving product installed. The caps are higher for products installed in affordable housing units or dwelling occupied by low-income residents. See details on those caps here.  

However, there are no caps on credits individual taxpayers can claim for their construction projects.  

The table below outlines the annual fund caps for the program.  

Sustainable Building Tax Credit Categories and Funding Amounts   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Project Type</td><td>Tax Credit Program Caps Per Calendar Year</td><td>Effective Date</td><td>SBTC Qualification Requirement</td></tr><tr><td>Energy Conserving Products</td><td>$2,900,000</td><td>1/1/2021</td><td>Products must meet Energy Star Certification or other specifications detailed in the application instructions and checklist.</td></tr><tr><td>New Residential Construction</td><td>$2,000,000</td><td>1/1/2022</td><td>Project must meet Build Green NM Gold or Emerald or LEED-H Gold or Platinum Certification</td></tr><tr><td>New Commercial Construction</td><td>$1,000,000</td><td>1/1/2022</td><td>Project must meet LEED Certification</td></tr><tr><td>Manufactured Housing</td><td>$ 250,000</td><td>1/1/2022</td><td>Project must comply with Energy Star Program</td></tr><tr><td>Large Commerciall Renovation</td><td>$1,000,000</td><td>1/1/2021</td><td>Project must be 50% better than ASHRAEStandard</td></tr><tr><td>Total SBTC Allocation</td><td>$7,150,000</td><td></td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Divisions  

Administrative Services   
Energy Conservation & Management   
Forestry Division   
Mining and Minerals   
Oil Conservation   
State Parks  

Our Address 1220 South St. Francis Drive Santa Fe, NM 87505  

Powered by Real Time Solutions -Website Design & Document Management  