# Code of Maryland Regulations

## Title 20 - PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION

### Subtitle 62 - COMMUNITY SOLAR ENERGY GENERATION SYSTEMS

Chapter 20.62.01 - General



							Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
This subtitle is applicable to electric companies and subscriber organizations in service territories where customers have the ability to subscribe to a community solar energy generation system under a pilot program approved by the Commission.

							
							

Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. In this subtitle the following terms have the meanings indicated.

								
B. Terms Defined. 
(1) Agent. 
(a) "Agent" means a person who conducts marketing or sales activities, or both, on behalf of a subscriber organization or subscription coordinator. Agent includes an employee, a representative, an independent contractor and a vendor.

										
(b) "Agent" includes subcontractors, employees, vendors and representatives not directly under contract with the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator that conducts marketing or sales activities on behalf or for the benefit of the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator.

										
(c) "Agent" does not include a member of a neighborhood association, church, nonprofit organization, or other community organization that is a subscriber organization when the member is conducting marketing or sales activities on behalf of the subscriber organization to fellow members and is not receiving any compensation for those marketing or sales activities.

									

									
(2) "Baseline annual usage " has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(3) "Brownfield" means one of the following:
(a) A former industrial or commercial site identified by federal or State laws or regulations as contaminated or polluted;

										
(b) A closed municipal or rubble landfill regulated under a refuse disposal permit by the Maryland Department of the Environment; or

										
(c) "Mined lands" as defined in COMAR  26.21.01.01B.
										

									

									
(4) "Clean fill site" means a closed filling operation exempt from regulation by the Maryland Department of the Environment under COMAR  26.04.07.04C(5)   for which a subscriber organization has provided documentation from a local authority having jurisdiction that the filling operation meets the exemption criteria under COMAR  26.04.07.04C(5). 

									
(5) "Commission" means the Public Service Commission of Maryland.

									
(6) "Community solar energy generating system" has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(7) "Consent" means an agreement with an action communicated by the following: 
(a) A written document with customer signature; or

										
(b) An electronic document with electronic signature.

									

									
(8) "Consumer" or "customer" means a retail electric customer account holder of a regulated electric company.

									
(9) "Contract summary" means a summary of the material terms and conditions of a community solar pilot program subscriber contract on a form provided by the Commission.

									
(10) "CSEGS" means a community solar energy generating system.

									
(11) "Electric company" has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										1-101, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(12) "Electronic transaction" means a standardized data protocol or electronic transmission medium that has been accepted by the Commission for use in Maryland.

									
(13) "Low income" means a subscriber whose gross annual household income is at or below 175 percent of the federal poverty level for the year of subscription or who is certified as eligible for any federal, state, or local assistance program that limits participation to households whose income is at or below 175 percent of the federal poverty limit.

									
(14) "Moderate income" means a subscriber whose gross annual household income is at or below 80 percent of the median income for Maryland for the year of subscription.

									
(15) "Personally identifiable information " means information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, either alone or when combined with other personal or identifying information that is linked or capable of being linked to a specific individual.

									
(16) "Program" has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(17) "Public event" means an event open to the public where subscriptions to a community solar energy generation system are marketed or sold.

									
(18) "Security deposit" means any payment of money given to a subscriber organization by a subscriber in order to protect the subscriber organization against nonpayment of future subscription fees, but does not include escrowed prepaid subscription fees.

									
(19) "Subscriber" has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(20) "Subscriber organization" has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(21) "Subscription " has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(22) "Subscription coordinator" means a person that: 
(a) Markets CSEGS projects or otherwise provides CSEGS-related services under its own brand name;

										
(b) Performs any administrative actions to connect or enroll customers with CSEGS projects or allocates subscriptions; or

										
(c) Manages interactions between a subscriber organization and an electric company relating to subscribers. 

									

									
(23) "Unsubscribed energy" has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(24) "Utility" means an electric company as defined in Public Utilities Article, §
										1-101, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(25) "Virtual net energy metering " has the meaning stated in Public Utilities Article, §
										7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. An electric company shall file a plan and relevant tariffs for compliance with this subtitle within 45 days after this regulation becomes effective.

								
B. A municipal electric company or electric cooperative electing to participate in the pilot program shall file a plan and related tariffs for compliance with this subtitle within 45 days after notifying the Commission of that election.

							
							




							Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
The Commission may waive a regulation in this subtitle for good cause shown.

							

Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. Each electric company shall establish a program to accept and administer community solar energy generating system projects for a period of 7 years from the earlier of: 
(1) The first date of application of a subscriber organization to operate a community solar energy generating system after the effective date of this subtitle; or

									
(2) 6 months from the effective date of this subtitle.

								

								
B. Community solar energy generating system programs may not end prior to December 31, 2024.

								
C. Program Annual Start Date. 
(1) An electric company participating in the Pilot Program shall post a start date for each program year on the electric company's website.

									
(2) An electric company shall make best efforts to begin each program year within 12 months of the start date for the previous year, with the exception of Program Year 6.

									
(3) An electric company may include a schedule of program years in its tariff.

									
(4) An electric company shall make best efforts to begin Program Year 6 within 18 months after the beginning of Program Year 4.

								

								
D. An electric company shall apply bill credits and excess generation to a subscriber's bill in accordance with applicable tariffs. 

								
E. An electric company shall pay subscriber organizations for unsubscribed energy in accordance with applicable tariffs.

								
F. An electric company shall maintain program data and records as directed by the Commission.

							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. Capacity Limit. 
(1) Statewide Capacity. 
(a) Subject to §A(1)(b) of this regulation, an electric company may not accept pilot program project applications after the Statewide capacity of pilot projects has exceeded 4.55 percent of the 2015 Maryland peak demand in MW as measured by the sum of the nameplate capacity of each project's inverter.

										
(b) An electric company shall accept an additional 0.15 percent of 2015 capacity for projects serving the LMI category or projects serving the Small category under §A(3)(a)(iv) of this regulation if an electric utility has reached full capacity available to projects in the LMI category.

										
(c) An electric company shall accept an additional 0.05 percent of 2015 capacity for projects of 50kW or less during the fourth through seventh year of the program.

									

									
(2) Annual Cap. The following percentages of 2015 Maryland peak demand will set annual program capacity: 
(a) First year-0.6 percent.

										
(b) Second year-0.6 percent.

										
(c) Third year-0.3 percent.

										
(d) Fourth year-0.35 percent.

										
(e) Fifth year - 0.8 percent.

										
(f) Sixth year - 0.9 percent.

										
(g) Seventh year - 0.95 percent.

									

									
(3) Program Categories. An electric company shall accept pilot projects in each of the following categories up to the annual and program capacity limits according to the percentages shown in each of the following paragraphs: 
(a) Small, Brownfield and Other Category (Small) - 30 percent.
(i) Projects up to and including 500 kW.

											
(ii) Projects installed on rooftops, parking lots, roadways or parking structures. 

											
(iii) Projects installed on brownfield locations.

											
(iv) Projects serving more than 51 percent of kWh output to Low or Moderate income customers.

											
(v) Projects installed on clean fill sites.

										

										
(b) Open Category (Open) - 40 percent - Projects of any size up to 2 MW.

										
(c) Low and Moderate Income Category (LMI) - 30 percent - Projects serving more than 30 percent of kWh output to Low or Moderate income subscribers of which Low Income subscribers receive a minimum of 10 percent of kWh output.

										
(d) Projects which qualify for the Small or LMI category may use capacity from the Open category after the electric company has accepted projects up to the limit of its respective categories.
(e) An electric company may accept an LMI project using either LMI capacity or LMI projects serving the Small category under §A(3)(a)(iv) of this regulation as described in §A(2) of this regulation from subsequent program years if the capacity in the current year has been fully allocated.

									
(4) Electric Company Program Capacity Limits. 
(a) Subject to the annual and category limits established in this regulation, an electric company shall accept pilot program applications up to 4.55 percent of its 2015 Maryland peak demand.

										
(b) An electric company may accept project applications after it has accepted 4.55 percent of its 2015 peak demand in MW as measured by the sum of the nameplate capacity of each project's inverter. 

										
(c) An electric company may cease accepting project applications according to the annual percentages listed in §A(2) of this regulation as applied to that company's 2015 peak demand.

										
(d) An electric company shall allocate annual capacity according to the program category percentages listed in §A(3) of this regulation.

										
(e) An electric company shall notify the Commission if it intends to accept project applications beyond the level described in §A(4)(a) of this regulation.

										
(f) An electric company shall combine the capacity of the Small and Open categories if the capacity allocated to the "Open" category is 500 kW or less.

										
(g) Waitlist. 
(i) If a subscriber organization applies to add a project to a category after an electric company has awarded all available capacity in that category, the electric company shall place the project application on a waitlist for the category in the order in which the application was received.

											
(ii) In years 4 through 7 of the Program, an electric company shall first award project applications in each category from the waitlist for that category before awarding capacity to new project applications.

											
(iii) A subscriber organization may not change the category of a project on the waitlist.

											
(iv) An electric company shall remove a project from a category waitlist upon request of the subscriber organization for which the Commission has authorized the project.

											
(v) A subscriber organization may re-apply to a different category after the electric company has removed a project from a category waitlist.

										

									
(5) Unused Annual Capacity. 
(a) Electric company capacity in each year which remains unused by projects shall be added to the capacity of the following year such that the total Statewide capacity does not exceed the limit in §A of this regulation.

										
(b) If a category listed in §A(3) of this regulation has unused capacity at the end of any year of the program, the unused capacity shall be carried forward in the same category to the following year.

										
(c) Capacity that has remained unused following the sixth year shall be reallocated by the Commission upon good cause shown.

									

								

								
B. Each electric company shall maintain a list of accepted projects and total pilot program capacity in its service territory.

								
C. Project Lists.
(1) Each electric company shall provide the list in §B of this regulation to the Commission on the first business day after June 30 and December 31 of each year until the pilot is closed.

									
(2) An electric company that posts on its website the information in §B of this regulation shall be considered to have met the requirements of this section.

								

								
D. The Commission may direct electric companies to close the program to new applications if the total Statewide net-metered generation exceeds the limit described in Public Utilities Article, §
									7-306(d), Annotated Code of Maryland.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A subscriber organization may subscribe as many accounts as needed to match each CSEGS's capacity.

								
B. An electric company may require a subscriber organization to maintain a minimum average subscription size of 2 kW per customer for an individual CSEGS during the pilot program.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. Subscriber List. 
(1) List Composition. 
(a) A subscriber organization shall provide the electric company with electronic data indicating the proportion of a community solar energy generating system's output that shall be applied to each subscriber's bill.

										
(b) An electric company may develop an alternative format for processing subscriber lists.

									

									
(2) Update Frequency.
(a) A subscriber organization may at any time provide an updated subscriber list to an electric company.

										
(b) A subscriber organization shall provide an updated subscriber list via the designated electronic portal maintained by the electric company under §H of this regulation or any other format accepted by the electric company.

										
(c) An electric company shall use the most recent subscriber list provided by a subscriber organization, subject to submission deadlines incorporated by tariff and accepted by the Commission.

									

									
(3) An electric company shall apply credits using the most recently updated subscriber list provided by the subscriber organization.

								

								
B. An electric company shall determine the amount of kilowatt hours to be credited to each subscriber by multiplying the subscriber's most recent generation proportion from §A of this regulation by the metered output of the community solar energy generating system.

								
C. Application of Subscription Credits. 
(1) Unless otherwise directed by the Commission, an electric company may choose to apply the appropriate kilowatt-hour credit from §B of this regulation to each subscriber's bill as either a reduction in metered kilowatt-hour use or a dollar credit to the subscriber's billed amount.

									
(2) An electric company shall choose the same method for all subscribers in a project.

								

								
D. If the electric company chooses to apply the credit from §C of this regulation as a dollar amount, the electric company shall apply a credit no less than the value to the subscriber of the credit had it been applied to the subscriber's bill as a reduction in metered kilowatt hours.

								
E. An electric company shall retain a record of a pilot project's kilowatt hours applied to each subscriber's account for a period of 7 years.

								
F. Subscription credits shall carry over to the next month's bill until the earlier date on which: 
(1) The subscriber's account is closed; or,

									
(2) The subscriber's last meter reading prior to the month of April. 

								

								
G. Subscriber credits that are not carried over under §F of this regulation shall be handled as excess generation.

								
H. Electronic Portal. 
(1) An electric company shall establish and maintain an electronic portal that allows a subscriber organization to provide subscriber lists to the electric company for crediting as required by this regulation.

									
(2) An electric company that has established an electronic portal prior to the effective date of this regulation shall maintain an electronic portal with the capability that is specified in §H(3) of this regulation for the period of time specified in COMAR  20.62.02.10B  for each CSEGS in the program.

									
(3) An electric company shall allow a subscriber organization to input data electronically in batches of up to 1,000 subscriber accounts per CSEGS, including the ability to add new subscribers, remove subscribers, and edit the allocations of existing subscribers.

									
(4) Electric companies that do not currently have the capabilities in §H(3) of this regulation as of the effective date of this regulation shall implement these requirements no later than 12 months from the effective date of this regulation.

								

								
I. Electric Company Credit Allocation Reporting. 
(1) An electric company shall provide a subscriber organization with a report detailing each subscriber's credit allocation.

									
(2) An electric company shall provide the report described in §I(1) of this regulation no later than the last day of each calendar month following the month of the CSEGS meter reading by the electric company.

								

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A subscriber may not subscribe for an amount of energy that exceeds 200 percent of the value of the subscriber's baseline annual usage including all subscriptions and any net metered generation.

								
B. Multiple Subscriptions. 
(1) A customer may purchase multiple subscriptions from one or more CSEGS.

									
(2) A subscriber's total subscribed credits shall comply with §A of this regulation.

								

								
C. A subscriber may participate in net metering as described in Public Utilities Article, §
									7-306, Annotated Code of Maryland, such that the total of all net-metered generation and subscribed energy does not exceed 200 percent of the value of the subscriber's baseline annual usage.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
An electric company may not refund generation credits to customers except as electric bill credits or as payment for excess generation.

							
							

Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. An electric company shall pay a subscriber a dollar amount of excess generation as reasonably adjusted to exclude the distribution, transmission, and noncommodity portion of the customer's bill unless the electric company records subscriber credits as kilowatt hours.

								
B. An electric company that serves electric retail choice customers shall pay the subscriber for kilowatt hours of excess generation at the lesser of the subscriber's retail supply rate or the Standard Offer Service rate in effect at the time of payment.

								
C. An electric company that does not provide Standard Offer Service shall pay a subscriber for kilowatt hours of excess generation at the electric company's avoided cost of generation.

								
D. An electric company may pay a subscriber an amount of excess generation as a bill credit if the amount of payment is less than $25.

								
E. An electric company shall make a determination to apply §A, B, or C of this regulation in accordance with the type of subscription

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
An electric company shall file tariffs to pay a subscriber organization for unsubscribed energy in accordance with Public Utilities Article, §
									7-306.2(d)(7), Annotated Code of Maryland.

							
							

Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. An electric company shall receive full and timely cost recovery of program credit costs.

								
B. An electric company may not establish a separate surcharge, fee, or rate for recovery of any program costs, including credit and administrative costs.

								
C. An electric company may include program credit costs in existing rate adjustments for distribution rates or as a revenue or cost component for transmission or commodity rates as accepted by the Commission.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. Electric company tariffs requiring payments or credits from an electric company to subscribers in effect during the program shall remain in effect for subscribers for the earlier of 25 years from the date of the end of the program or until the subscriber's contract with its subscriber organization has ended.

								
B. An electric company shall continue to facilitate the operation of a subscriber organization that was established during the program for a period of 25 years after the program has ended.

								
C. A subscriber organization may continue to operate a community solar energy generating system that was established during the program for a period of 25 years after the program has ended.

								
D. A subscriber organization may create, exchange, and trade subscriptions up to the full project capacity for a community solar energy generating system that was established during the program for a period of 25 years after the program has ended

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. The Commission may establish standards for billing accuracy to apply to subscriber credits and billing revenue.

								
B. The Commission may direct an electric company to develop additional automated billing and crediting features in order to improve billing accuracy for the program.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. CSEGS Location. 
(1) A customer may subscribe to a community solar energy generating system that is located in the same electric company service territory as the customer.

									
(2) The location of a CSEGS for the purpose of customer eligibility shall be determined by the physical location of the electric meter of the CSEGS.

								

								
B. All rate classes are eligible to subscribe to a community solar energy generating system.

								
C. Subscribers served by retail electricity suppliers and subscribers served by Standard Offer Service may subscribe to the same community solar energy generating system.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A subscriber organization and a subscription coordinator shall apply with the Commission for admission to the program on forms authorized by the Commission.

								
B. The Commission shall assign each successful applicant a CSEGS identification number.

								
C. An electric company that participates as a subscriber organization may not recover CSEGS project costs through base distribution rates.

							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. An applicant that has been granted admission to the pilot program by the Commission that wishes to construct and operate a community solar energy generating system under this pilot program shall apply to the electric company serving the location of the system.

								
B. Project Application Procedure.
(1) An electric company shall establish a project application procedure in compliance with these regulations and Commission Orders.

									
(2) An electric company shall develop its project application procedure in a manner designed to encourage achievement of program goals, timely project development, and equitable allocation of the electric company's project capacity.

									
(3) An electric company shall develop tariffed terms and conditions to administer the pilot program queue for filing with the Commission.

								

								
C. An electric company shall assign each project an identification number unique to the electric company's service territory for the purpose of identification.

								
D. Low and Moderate Income Verification. 
(1) Current participants in the Maryland Office of Home Energy programs shall be deemed to have provided verification of low-income eligibility.

									
(2) A subscriber organization may qualify a customer for Low or Moderate Income eligibility by verification of income using paystubs or income tax documents.

									
(3) The Commission may establish alternate means to verify the status of Low and Moderate Income subscribers. 

									
(4) An operator of a low-income multi-family dwelling unit may apply to the Commission to qualify as a low-income subscriber for the purposes of the pilot program.

									
(5) A subscriber organization shall certify to the electric company in writing that the subscriber organization has verified the eligibility of all LMI subscribers needed to qualify for the program prior to receiving permission to operate from the electric company.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. Electric Company Application Process. 
(1) An electric company shall process applications filed under Regulation .03 of this chapter in the order in which the electric company receives the application.

									
(2) Within 5 business days of receipt, the electric company shall acknowledge receipt of the application and notify the subscriber organization whether the application is complete.

									
(3) If the application is incomplete, the electric company shall provide a written list detailing all information that must be provided to complete the application.

									
(4) A subscriber organization receiving notice of an incomplete application as described in §A(3) of this regulation shall revise and submit the required information within 10 business days after receipt of the list of incomplete information.

									
(5) The electric company shall notify a subscriber organization within 5 business days of receipt of a revised application whether the application is complete or incomplete.

									
(6) An electric company shall grant an extension of time to provide such information upon reasonable request from the subscriber organization.

									
(7) The electric company shall reject an application that is not submitted in accordance with this section.

								

								
B. Pilot Queue Order. 
(1) An electric company shall maintain a pilot program queue consisting of a list of pilot project applications in order of the date of receipt by the electric company of the application unless otherwise modified by §B(2) of this regulation.

									
(2) An electric company shall file with the Commission, a tariffed procedure to prioritize multiple applications that are received:
(a) On a single business day; or

										
(b) In a manner that exceeds the available program capacity or category capacity in a short period of time.

									

									
(3) In order to apply for capacity in an electric company's pilot program queue, a CSEGS shall provide the following to the electric company upon application: 
(a) An executed interconnection agreement;

										
(b) Proof of application for all applicable permits; and

										
(c) Proof of site control.

									

									
(4) An electric company shall accept the following as proof of site control:
(a) Evidence of property ownership;

										
(b) An executed lease agreement; or

										
(c) A signed option to purchase or lease.

									

									
(5) The Commission may establish additional conditions limiting the number of projects for which any single subscriber organization or its affiliates may apply in: 
(a) The Statewide program; or

										
(b) A single utility service territory.

									

								

								
C. Operational Deadline. 
(1) If a project fails to begin operating within 24 months of submission of a completed application by the subscriber organization, the electric company shall remove the project from the electric company's pilot program queue unless the subscriber organization of the project provides to the electric company an additional deposit of $50 per kW to maintain its position within the pilot program queue.

									
(2) If a project fails to begin operating within 36 months of application, the electric company shall remove the project from the electric company's pilot program queue.

									
(3) The electric company shall extend the operational deadline on a day-for-day basis for the following reasons: 
(a) If the subscriber organization attests and provides evidence to the electric company that a project's readiness to begin operating depends only upon receipt of permission to operate from the electric company; or

										
(b) If the subscriber organization attests and provides evidence to the electric company that a governmental permit or approval for the project was subject to a legal challenge during the reservation period, and the legal challenge remains pending.

									

									
(4) Projects in the IMI category are exempt from queue deposits.

									
(5) An electric company shall return the CSEGS deposit upon commencement of operation unless the electric company has removed the project from the queue.

									
(6) If a project has been removed from the queue by the electric company, the queue deposit shall be forfeited.

									
(7) An electric company shall forward forfeited queue deposits to the Commission.

								
D. Project Website Information. An electric company shall provide daily updated information in a publicly accessible location on its website about the current status of its pilot program queue, including the following information:
(1) Name of the applicant;

									
(2) Service address of the project;

									
(3) Capacity applied for;

									
(4) Application date;

									
(5) Category of application (Open, LMI, or SBO);

									
(6) Capacity and category awarded, if any, and date of award;

									
(7) Status of application (accepted, withdrawn, or removed) and date such action occurred; 
(8) Interconnection application status;

									
(9) Expected date of first operation;

									
(10) Operation deadline under §C of this regulation;

									
(11) Project identification number;

									
(12) CSEGS identification number; 

									
(13) Project status (reserved, in-service, wait-listed, or withdrawn);

									
(14) Pilot program year; and

									
(15) Table of awarded capacity with remaining available capacity by year in each program category.

								

								
E. If the electric company closes its pilot program queue, it shall state the reason for closing in the same location as the information provided in §D of this regulation.

								
F. An electric company that operates as a subscriber organization shall apply to the Commission for permission to enter each of its own projects into the electric company's pilot program queue.

							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. All subscriber organizations and utilities shall use the uniform electronic transaction processes approved by the Commission.

								
B. Community Solar Pilot Program Data Collection.
(1) Subscriber organizations shall provide the Maryland Public Service Commission with the following data by the 10th day of January, April, July, and October, and the data will be provided to the Maryland Energy Administration and may be made publicly available: 
(a) The name and address of the subscriber organization responsible for the community solar project;

										
(b) The name(s) and contact information (phone number, email address, and website) of the organization(s) authorized to find and sign-up subscribers;

										
(c) The name and description of the community solar array to include its project ID, physical location, and electrical service territory;

										
(d) The status of the community solar array development to identify the project phase to include at least one of the following options: 
(i) Design and development phase;

											
(ii) Under construction;

											
(iii) In-service;

											
(iv) Canceled/withdrawn; or

											
(v) On-hold/waitlist;

										

										
(e) The status of subscription acquisition to include at least one of the following options: 
(i) Not soliciting subscriptions at this time;

											
(ii) Subscriptions are available;

											
(iii) Fully subscribed, not accepting new subscriptions; or

											
(iv) Fully subscribed, but wait-listing new requests;

										

										
(f) The types of subscriptions being sought to include at least one of the following options: 
(i) Private placement only, not available to the public;

											
(ii) Available to residential subscribers only;

											
(iii) Available to commercial subscribers only; or

											
(iv) Available to both residential and commercial subscribers;

										

										
(g) The status of special discounts available to Low and Moderate income subscribers;

										
(h) The project size (kW-ac);

										
(i) The expected in-service date;

										
(j) Pilot program capacity category to include at least one of the following options: Very Small; Open; Low and Moderate Income; or Small/Brownfields/Other; and

										
(k) Date of last data update.

									

									
(2) Subscriber organizations shall provide the Maryland Public Service Commission with the following data by the 10th day of January, April, July, and October: 
(a) Information that the subscriber organization deems confidential shall be marked as such;

										
(b) Confidentially marked documents or information contained therein shall be shared with the Maryland Energy Administration and the Office of People's Counsel;

										
(c) Confidential documents can be shared by the Maryland Public Service Commission with an entity subject to the entity signing a nondisclosure agreement or subject to the requirements of the Public Information Act.

										
(d) The name, address, phone number, and email address of the subscriber organization point of contact (POC);

										
(e) The date program capacity was granted by the utility;

										
(f) The proposed community solar generating system output power (kW-dc);

										
(g) Proposed community solar energy generating system acreage (land actually inside the fence line);

										
(h) The percentage of energy subscribed to residential subscribers and to commercial subscribers;

										
(i) A subscription summary for each class of subscribers showing rates, fees, and any other pertinent information; and

										
(j) Date of last data update.

									

									
(3) During community solar project design and construction, all data in §B(1) and (2) of this regulation are considered to be the "best estimate" as of the reporting date. Within 60 days of an array going online, data shall be finalized with values as of the date of "Permission to Operate". No additional reporting is required after the commercial operational date.

									
(4) If no data have changed from the last report, the subscriber organization may simply submit a report stating that there were no changes from the previous report.

								

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. Subscribers are not customer-generators under Public Utilities Article, §
									7-306(g) (5), Annotated Code of Maryland.

								
B. Subscriber organizations shall own and have title to all renewable energy attributes or renewable credits associated with community energy generating facilities for which they have applied.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. Eligibility. 
(1) For purposes of this regulation, "existing" means a solar generating system that commenced operation prior to May 15, 2016.

									
(2) Any project that commences operation on or after May 15, 2016, is not considered to be a conversion for purposes of this program.

								

								
B. A subscriber organization may apply to convert all or a portion of an existing solar generating system with a total capacity of 500 kilowatts or less to a CSEGS.

								
C. A subscriber organization may apply to convert all or a portion of an existing solar generating system to a CSEGS up to and including a capacity of 2 megawatts after the first year of the program has ended in a service territory whose CSEGS program capacity is 5 megawatts or less.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. Colocation. 
(1) An electric company may not accept a CSEGS project of 500 kW or greater that is proposed to be located on the same or an adjacent parcel as an existing or proposed CSEGS project of 500 kW or greater which is located in its service territory and is owned by any subscriber organization or affiliate thereof. 

									
(2) Parcels that are subdivided after May 12, 2015, shall be considered as a single parcel for the purposes of these regulations unless a subscriber organization demonstrates to the Commission that the subdivision was not for the purposes of program queue eligibility.

									
(3) An electric company shall notify the Commission of a CSEGS application that is proposed to be constructed within 1 mile of an existing solar facility in its service territory.

									
(4) One or more subscriber organizations may not construct multiple facilities on a single parcel of property.

								

								
B. Projects that are constructed in the following locations are exempt from §A of this regulation:
(1) On the rooftops of buildings;

									
(2) In areas that are zoned for industrial use and are covered by a recorded subdivision plat;

									
(3) Of a combined capacity not exceeding 6 MW on brownfield locations and clean fill sites;

									
(4) Over parking lots or roadways; or,

									
(5) On multi-level parking structures.

								

								
C. A project that is converted from an existing solar facility is not subject to §A of this regulation.

								
D. Adjacent Parcels. For the purpose of §A of this regulation, a parcel is considered to be adjacent to another project under the following conditions: 
(1) The parcels share a common boundary;

									
(2) The parcels are separated by one or more rights of way;

									
(3) The parcels are separated by a roadway or highway for public use; and

									
(4) The parcels are separated by a remainder parcel that has at least one dimension that is 75' wide or less.

								

								
E. Colocation of Low and Moderate Income Projects.
(1) A subscriber organization may petition the Commission for waiver of §A(1) and (4) of this regulation for the construction of projects: 
(i) With a combined capacity not exceeding 4MW; and

										
(ii) Which serve 100 percent of kWh output to Low or Moderate income subscribers.

									

									
(2) The Commission may, in its discretion, grant the waiver request for good cause shown.

								

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A subscription coordinator shall apply with the Commission and obtain a Commission approval number before performing the functions of a subscription coordinator.

								
B. A subscription coordinator shall notify the Commission of any CSEGS projects for which the coordinator is or plans on performing any functions of a subscription coordinator.

								
C. The Commission shall make the list of subscription coordinators for which application has been made under §A of this regulation publicly available on the Commission's website or other website approved by the Commission.

								
D. A subscription coordinator operating on the effective date of this regulation shall apply with the Commission within 180 days of the effective date.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
An electric company shall provide the Commission with data necessary to monitor the program status, impact on operations, and other information upon request.

							
							

Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. An electric company shall make reasonable attempts to assist pilot program applicants with identifying means to locate and operate community energy generation facilities in a manner that minimizes adverse effects or maximizes distribution system benefits at locations identified by applicants.

								
B. Project Information. 
(1) A utility shall designate a contact person, and provide contact information on its website and for the Commission's website for submission of all project application requests, and from whom information on the project application request process and the utility's electric distribution system can be obtained.

									
(2) The information provided by the utility on its website shall include studies and other materials useful to an understanding of the feasibility of interconnecting a CSEGS on the utility electric distribution system, except to the extent providing the materials would violate security requirements or confidentiality agreements or be contrary to law.

									
(3) In appropriate circumstances, the utility may require an applicant to execute an appropriate confidentiality agreement prior to release or access to confidential or restricted information.

								

								
C. An electric company shall monitor and review its distribution system to determine any adverse or beneficial effects resulting from each installed community solar energy generating system.

								
D. An electric company shall maintain for the duration of the pilot, the following customer information for each project operating during the pilot subscriber data, including: 
(1) Customer class;

									
(2) Annual usage;

									
(3) Average bill; and

									
(4) Peak demand.

								

								
E. Commission Staff shall report annually on electric companies' billing accuracy, interconnection complaints, and consumer complaints related to the program.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A subscriber organization shall maintain for the duration of the pilot program, the following information for each project operating during the pilot program: 
(1) Ownership information;

									
(2) Technical and managerial expertise;

									
(3) Business address;

									
(4) Project design details, including: 
(a) Project location/service territory;

										
(b) A/C output capacity;

										
(c) Equipment list; and

										
(d) Interconnection requirements;

									

									
(5) Subscriber data as directed by the Commission, including: 
(a) Household income;

										
(b) Credit rating; and

										
(c) Other data; and

									

									
(6) Subscription information, including: 
(a) Rates;

										
(b) Fees; and

										
(c) Terms and conditions.

									

								

								
B. A subscriber organization shall provide the information in §A of this regulation to the Commission upon request.

								
C. A subscriber organization shall provide to the Commission, in a timely manner, information requested by the Commission concerning the operation of a community solar energy generating system.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. This chapter applies to transactions between CSEGS subscriber organizations, subscription coordinators, or their respective agents and customers that are subscribing to a community solar energy generation system under a pilot program approved by the Commission.

								
B. A customer may grant authority to a subscription coordinator to act on the customer's behalf in any process required by this chapter.

								
C. A subscription coordinator shall disclose to a subscriber its relationship with any person with whom the subscription coordinator executes a contract on behalf of a customer.

								
D. A contract between a subscription coordinator and a customer is subject to the Commission's regulatory jurisdiction under this subtitle and COMAR 20.32.

								
E. Regulations .08, .09, .14, .16, .17, .18, and .20 of this chapter do not apply to nonresidential customers.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. No person shall subscribe a customer to a community solar energy generation system without the customer's consent.

								
B. A subscriber organization may not add a new charge for a new service, existing service, or service option without first obtaining consent from the customer, verifiable to the same extent and using the same methods specified under Regulation .08 of this chapter.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. Advertising Permitted. 
(1) A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may advertise its services.

									
(2) A subscriber organization, a subscription coordinator, or their agent may not engage in a marketing or trade practice that is unfair, false, misleading, or deceptive.

								

								
B. Marketing Disclosures. 
(1) A subscriber organization's, a subscription coordinator's, or their agent's marketing or solicitation information shall include the subscriber organization's or subscription coordinator's Maryland approval number in a clear and conspicuous manner.

									
(2) If a subscription price is quoted, the following are required: 
(a) A statement that the subscription price quoted is only for the specified product or services provided by the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator, and the subscription price quoted does not include any tax, commodity, utility distribution or transmission charge, or other utility fee or charge;

										
(b) A statement that the subscriber organization's or subscription coordinator's price is not regulated by the Commission; and

										
(c) Any projected savings presented to a potential subscriber shall include a comparison that projects future electricity rates increasing at not more than 1 percent per year. 

									

								

								
C. Internet Advertising. If a subscriber organization, a subscription coordinator, or their agent maintains a website, the subscriber organization, the subscription coordinator, or their agent shall post on the Internet readily understandable information about its services, prices, and any other mandated disclosures.

								
D. Telephone Solicitation. 
(1) A subscriber organization, subscription coordinator, or their agent soliciting customers by telephone shall comply with all applicable State and federal law, including the Maryland Telephone Solicitations Act, Commercial Law Article, §§ 14-2201-14 -2205, Annotated Code of Maryland.

									
(2) A subscriber organization, a subscription coordinator, or their agent may not conduct a residential customer telephone solicitation before 8 a.m. or after 9 p.m.

								

							
							




							Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall apply uniform income, security deposit, and credit standards for the purpose of making a decision as to whether to offer a subscription to customers within a given class, provided that the subscriber organization may apply separate sets of uniform standards for the purpose of promoting participation by low-income and moderate-income retail electric customers.

							

Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may market services on a geographic basis.

								
B. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator is not required to offer services throughout an electric company's entire service territory.

								
C. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may not refuse to provide service to a customer based on the economic character of a geographic area or the collective credit reputation of the area.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may not discriminate against any customer, based wholly or partly, on race, color, creed, national origin, or gender of an applicant for service or for any arbitrary, capricious, or unfairly discriminatory reason.

								
B. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may not refuse to provide service to a customer except by the application of standards that are reasonably related to the subscriber organization's economic and business purposes.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. Contract Summary. 
(1) Either prior to or at the same time as a contract for a subscription to a CSEGS or authority to act per COMAR Regulation .01B of this chapter is executed, a subscriber organization or a subscription coordinator shall present the customer with a completed Contract Summary Disclosure using a form that is approved by the Commission.

									
(2) The customer shall initial a copy of the Contract Summary Disclosure to acknowledge receipt of the Contract Summary, and: 
(a) If a subscription contract is completed through the Internet, the complete d Contract Summary shall be: 
(i) Available online and made available for download by the customer at the time of contracting; and

											
(ii) Transmitted to the customer by the subscriber organization by mail or by email if the customer consents to receipt of email disclosures; and 

										

										
(b) Whether a subscription contract is completed in person or electronically, a subscriber organization shall allow the subscriber to retain a signed version of the executed contract and an initialed version of the Contract Summary Disclosure form.

									

								

								
B. Notice of Subscription. 
(1) A subscriber organization shall provide notice of subscription of a customer to a utility in a format consistent with Commission Orders.

									
(2) A customer entering into an agreement with a subscriber organization shall receive written notice of enrollment from the subscriber organization and the electric company.

									
(3) Notice of enrollment under §B(1) of this regulation shall include the following: 
(a) Customer name;

										
(b) Customer service address;

										
(c) Billing name;

										
(d) Billing address;

										
(e) Utility name;

										
(f) Utility account number;

										
(g) Subscriber organization name;

										
(h) Subscriber organization account number; and
(i) Effective date of the enrollment.

									

								

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. Minimum Contract Requirements.
(1) A subscribing organization's subscription contract shall contain all material terms and conditions, including: 
(a) A plain language disclosure of the subscription, including: 
(i) The terms under which the pricing will be calculated over the life of the contract and a good faith estimate of the subscription price expressed as a flat monthly rate or on a per-kilowatt-hour basis; and

											
(ii) Whether any charges may increase during the course of service, and, if so, how much advance notice is provided to the subscriber;

										

										
(b) Contract provisions regulating the disposition or transfer of a subscription to the CSEGS, as well as the costs or potential costs associated with such a disposition or transfer;

										
(c) All nonrecurring (one-time) charges;

										
(d) All recurring (monthly, yearly) charges;

										
(e) A statement of contract duration, including the initial time period and any rollover provision;

										
(f) Terms and conditions for early termination, including: 
(i) Any penalties that the subscriber organization may charge to the subscriber; and

											
(ii) The process for unsubscribing and any associated costs;

										

										
(g) If a security deposit is required: 
(i) The amount of the security deposit;

											
(ii) A description of when and under what circumstances the security deposit will be returned; 

											
(iii) A description of how the security deposit may be used; and

											
(iv) A description of how the security deposit will be protected;

										

										
(h) A description of any fee or charge and the circumstances under which a customer may incur a fee or charge;

										
(i) A statement that the subscriber organization may terminate the contract early, including: 
(i) Circumstances under which early cancellation by the subscriber organization may occur;

											
(ii) Manner in which the subscriber organization shall notify the customer of the early cancellation of the contract; 
(iii) Duration of the notice period before early cancellation; and

											
(iv) Remedies available to the customer if early cancellation occurs;

										

										
(j) A statement that the customer may terminate the contract early, including: 
(i) Circumstances under which early cancellation by the customer may occur;

											
(ii) Manner in which the customer shall notify the subscriber organization of the early cancellation of the contract; 

											
(iii) Duration of the notice period before early cancellation;

											
(iv) Remedies available to the subscriber organization if early cancellation occurs; and

											
(v) Amount of any early cancellation fee;

										
(k) A statement describing contract renewal procedures, if any; 

										
(I) A dispute procedure;

										
(m) The Commission's toll-free number and Internet address;

										
(n) A notice that the contract does not include utility charges;

										
(o) A billing procedure description;

										
(p) The data privacy policies of the subscriber organization;

										
(q) A description of any compensation to be paid for underperformance;

										
(r) Evidence of insurance;

										
(s) A long-term maintenance plan;

										
(t) Current production projections and a description of the methodology used to develop production projections;

										
(u) Contact information for the subscriber organization for questions and complaints;

										
(v) A statement that the subscriber organization and electric company do not make representations or warranties concerning the tax implications of any bill credits provided to the subscriber;

										
(w) The method of providing notice to the subscribers when the CSEGS is out of service for more than 3 business days, including notice of:
(i) The estimated duration of the outage; and

											
(ii) The estimated production that will be lost due to the outage;

										

										
(x) An explanation of how unsubscribed production of the CSEGS will be allocated; and

										
(y) Any other terms and conditions of service.

									

									
(2) A residential customer may downsize the allocation of solar kilowatt hours under an existing CSEGS Subscription.

									
(3) A subscriber organization may charge or collect no more than a reasonable fee for the downsizing of a subscriber's allocation.

									
(4) A subscription coordinator may not charge or collect a termination fee for the downsizing or cancellation of a subscriber's allocation.

									
(5) A subscription coordinator may only enroll subscribers in CSEGS contracts that guarantee financial savings for the subscriber.

								

								
B. Methods of Contracting. 
(1) A subscriber organization may not subscribe a residential customer using a process that does not require the customer's consent.

									
(2) A subscriber organization that contracts with a customer by means of the Internet shall: 
(a) Confirm the identity of the person making the contract;

										
(b) Comply with applicable Maryland and federal law; and

										
(c) Take appropriate steps to safeguard customer privacy.

									

									
(3) A subscriber organization that sends a contract over the Internet to a valid email address of the contracting customer is considered to have complied with §B(2)(a) of this regulation.

								

								
C. Evergreen Contracts. 
(1) A subscriber organization shall provide a customer with a notice of the pending renewal of an evergreen contract 30 days before the automatic renewal is scheduled to occur.

									
(2) The subscriber organization notice required under §C(1) of this regulation shall: 
(a) Provide a clearly stated and highlighted notice to a customer of any changes in the material terms and conditions of the agreement; and

										
(b) Inform the customer how to terminate the contract without penalty.

									

								

							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A CSEGS Subscription may be transferred or assigned to a CSEGS subscriber organization or to any person or entity who qualifies to be a subscriber in the CSEGS.

								
B. A CSEGS subscriber who desires to transfer or assign all or part of his subscription to the CSEGS subscriber organization, in its own name, or to become unsubscribed shall notify the CSEGS subscriber organization and the transfer of the subscription to the CSEGS subscriber organization shall be effective upon such notification, unless the CSEGS subscriber specifies a later effective date.

								
C. A CSEGS subscriber who desires to transfer or assign all or part of his subscription to another eligible customer desiring to purchase a subscription may do so only in compliance with the terms and conditions of the subscription and will be effective in accordance therewith. 

								
D. The CSEGS subscriber organization and the electric company shall jointly verify that each CSEGS subscriber is eligible to be a subscriber in the CSEGS under Public Utilities Article, §
									7-306.2, Annotated Code of Maryland. Changes in the subscriber rolls of the CSEGS, including the effective date of changes, shall be communicated by the CSEGS subscriber organization to the electric company, in written or electronic form, as soon as practicable but no less than 30 days.

								
E. Prices paid for subscriptions in a CSEGS may not be subject to regulation by the Commission.

								
F. A subscriber that moves to a premise located within the service territory served by the CSEGS may change the premises to which the CSEGS electricity generation shall be attributed to the new premise, and a subscriber organization may not charge an unreasonable transfer fee to such a customer.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. Except as provided in COMAR 20.62.04 and §B of this regulation, a subscriber organization may not disclose energy usage or personally identifiable information about a subscriber, or a subscriber's billing, payment, and credit information, without the subscriber's consent.

								
B. A subscriber organization may disclose a subscriber's billing, payment, and credit information for the sole purpose of facilitating billing, bill collection, and credit reporting. 

								
C. A subscriber organization shall provide a customer with a copy of the subscriber organization's customer information privacy policy.

								
D. A subscriber organization shall treat information received from prospective customers, including those who do not subscribe, in accordance with §§A and C of this regulation.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
Subscriber funds collected by the CSEGS subscriber organization in advance of commercial operation of the CSEGS shall be held in an escrow account in a manner approved by the Commission. The escrow shall be maintained by its terms until such time as the CSEGS commences commercial operation as certified by the electric company's acceptance of energy from the CSEGS.

							
							

Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A CSEGS subscriber organization shall provide the customer with notice at least 30 days before expiration or cancellation of a subscription contract.

								
B. Contents of Notice. The subscriber organization's expiration or cancellation notice required under §A of this regulation shall include:
(1) Final bill payment instructions; and

									
(2) The toll-free telephone number and the website address of the subscriber organization and the Commission.

								

								
C. Early Cancellation. 
(1) Notice of early cancellation by the subscriber organization shall comply with §B of this regulation.

									
(2) Early Cancellation Fee. 
(a) A subscriber organization may impose a reasonable early cancellation fee if a customer cancels the contract before the expiration date.

										
(b) A subscriber organization may deduct a cancellation fee from a customer deposit.

									

									
(3) Except as provided in a tariff regarding subscriber organization default, an electric company may remove a customer from subscriber organization services only if directed by a subscriber organization, subject to applicable bankruptcy law.

									
(4) When a subscriber organization contracts with a customer, the newly contracting subscriber organization shall notify the customer that the customer may incur early cancellation penalties under a current subscriber organization contract.

								

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. At least 30 days prior to the effective date of any assignment or transfer of a subscription contract from one subscriber organization to another, the subscriber organizations shall jointly provide written notice of the assignment or transfer to the customers of the subscriber organization, the Commission, the electric company, and the Office of People's Counsel. 
(1) Notice to Customer. The subscriber organizations shall jointly send notice to the customer informing them of the assignment or transfer. The letter shall include: 
(a) A description of the transaction in clear and concise language including the effective date of the assignment or transfer;

										
(b) Customer service contact information for the assignee; and

										
(c) A statement that the terms and conditions of the customer's contract at the time of assignment shall remain the same for the remainder of the contract term.

									

									
(2) The subscriber organizations shall file a notice with the Commission, with a copy to the Office of People's Counsel and the electric company, of the assignment or transfer of the customer contracts and include a copy of the letter sent to customers.

								

								
B. Upon request by the Commission, the assignee shall be responsible for providing documents and records related to the assigned contracts. Records shall be maintained for a period of 3 years or until the contracts are expired, whichever is longer.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A customer alleging a violation of this subtitle may file a dispute with the Commission's Office of External Relations.

								
B. Upon proof of the allegations, the customer's remedy through the Office of External Relations is limited to a refund of any overcharge and any fees or penalties paid by the customer as a result of the unauthorized subscription or other violation.

								
C. This subtitle does not limit: 
(1) The authority of the Commission under Public Utilities Article, Annotated Code of Maryland;

									
(2) The authority of the Attorney General to investigate violations of consumer protection or other legal requirements; or

									
(3) The ability of a customer to pursue other relief against a subscriber organization or other party.

								

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. A subscriber organization may use an agent or subscription coordinator to conduct marketing or sales activities.

								
B. A subscriber organization is responsible for any fraudulent, deceptive, or other unlawful marketing performed by its agent or subscription coordinator while marketing or selling subscriptions on behalf of the subscriber organization.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall develop standards and qualifications for individuals it chooses to hire as its agents. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may not hire an individual that fails to meet its standards.

								
B. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may not permit a person to conduct door-to-door activities until it has obtained and reviewed a criminal history record in the same manner as provided in COMAR 20.53.08.

								
C. When a subscriber organization or subscription coordinator contracts with an independent contractor or vendor to perform door-to-door activities, the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall document that the contractor or vendor has performed criminal background investigations on an agent in accordance with this regulation and with the standards set by the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may satisfy this requirement by obtaining from the independent contractor or vendor a written statement affirming that the criminal background check was performed by them or under their supervision in accordance with this regulation and with standards set by the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator and presented in writing.

								
D. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall periodically audit whether the background checks completed by its independent contractor or vendor have been completed in accordance with this regulation.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall ensure the training of its agents on the following subjects:
(1) Local, State and federal laws and regulations that govern marketing, telemarketing, consumer protection, and door-to-door sales as applicable to the types of marketing and jurisdiction in which the agent shall engage or operate;

									
(2) Responsible and ethical sales practices;

									
(3) The subscriber organization's products and services;

									
(4) The subscriber organization's or subscription coordinator's rates, rate structures, and payment options; 

									
(5) The customer's right to rescind and cancel contracts;

									
(6) The applicability of an early termination fee for contract cancellation when the subscriber organization has one;

									
(7) The necessity of adhering to the script and knowledge of the contents of the script if one is used;

									
(8) The proper completion of transaction documents;
(9) The subscriber organization's or subscription coordinator's Contract Summary Disclosure;

									
(10) Information about how customers may contact the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator to obtain information about billing, disputes, and complaints; and

									
(11) The confidentiality and protection of customer information.

								
B. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall document the training of an agent and maintain a record of the training for 3 years from the date the training was completed.

								
C. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall make training materials and training records available to the Commission and the Office of People's Counsel upon request. Any such material shall be treated as confidential.

								
D. When a subscriber organization or subscription coordinator contracts with an independent contractor to perform marketing or sales activities on the subscriber organization's or subscription coordinator's behalf, the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall confirm that the contractor or vendor has provided subscriber organization-approved training to agents and independent contractors in accordance with this section.

								
E. The subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall monitor telephonic and door-to-door marketing and sales calls to: 
(1) Evaluate the subscriber organization's or subscription coordinator's training program; and

									
(2) Ensure that agents are providing accurate and complete information, complying with applicable rules and regulations and providing courteous service to customers.

								

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall issue an identification badge to agents to be worn and prominently displayed when conducting door-to-door activities or appearing at public events on behalf of a subscriber organization or subscription coordinator. The badge shall: 
(1) Accurately identify the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator, its trade name, and its logo;

									
(2) Display the agent's photograph;

									
(3) Display the agent's full name; and

									
(4) Display a customer service phone number for the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator.

								

								
B. Upon first contact with a customer, an agent shall: 
(1) Identify the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator that the agent represents; and

									
(2) State that the agent is not working for and is independent of the customer's local distribution company or another subscriber organization or subscription coordinator.

								

								
C. When conducting door-to-door activities or appearing at a public event, an agent may not wear apparel or accessories or carry equipment that contains branding elements, including a logo that suggests a relationship that does not exist with a utility, government agency, or another subscriber organization or subscription coordinator.

								
D. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator may not use the name, bills, marketing materials, or consumer education materials of another.

								
E. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator agent may not say or suggest to a customer that a utility customer is required to choose a CSEGS subscriber organization.

							
							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
A. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator and its agents shall comply with the Maryland Door-to-Door Sales Act, local government ordinances regarding door-to-door marketing and sales activities, and any other applicable consumer protection law.

								
B. A subscriber organization's or subscription coordinator's agent shall: 
(1) Prominently display an identification badge; and

									
(2) Offer a business card or other material that lists:
(a) The subscriber organization's or subscription coordinator's name and contact information, including telephone number;

										
(b) The Maryland approval number of the subscriber organization's CSEGS project or for subscription coordinators the CSEGS project the subscription coordinator is affiliated with and the subscription coordinator's Commission approval number; and

										
(c) The agent's name and any other identification numbers provided to the sales agent by the subscriber organization or agent.

									

								

								
C. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall establish a policy that requires an agent to terminate contact with a customer if the customer is incapable of understanding and responding to the information being conveyed by the agent.

								
D. When an agent completes a transaction with a customer, the agent shall provide a copy of each document that the customer signed or initialed relating to the transaction. A copy of these documents shall be provided to the customer before the agent and the customer leave each other's presence.

								
E. An agent shall immediately leave a residence when requested to do so by a customer or the owner or an occupant of the premises, or if the customer does not express an interest in what the agent is attempting to sell.

							



Current through Register Vol. 51, No. 26, December 27, 2024
								
A. When a subscriber organization or subscription coordinator engages in door-to-door activity, the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall notify CAD no later than the morning of the day that the activity begins. The notification shall include general, nonproprietary information about the activity, the period involved, and a general description of the geographical area.

								
B. A subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall provide the utility with general, nonproprietary information about the door-to-door activity that caused the subscriber organization or subscription coordinator to provide notice to the Commission. The subscriber organization or subscription coordinator shall provide this general information to the utility no later than the morning of the day that the sales and marketing activities begin. The utility shall use this information only for acquainting its customer service representatives with sales and marketing activity occurring in its service territory so that they may address customer inquiries knowledgably. A utility may not use the information for other purposes.

							
							

