Virginia Administrative Code Title 20. Public Utilities And Telecommunications Agency 5. State Corporation Commission Chapter 340. Rules Governing Shared Solar Program  

# 20VAC5-340-10. Applicability.  

A. This chapter is promulgated pursuant to $\S56{-}594.3$ of the Code of Virginia. The provisions of this chapter apply to Phase II Utilities, subscriber organizations, and subscribers. The provisions of this chapter govern the development of shared solar facilities and participation in the shared solar program.  

B. The maximum cumulative size of the shared solar program initially shall not exceed 150 megawatts, at least $30\%$ of which must be comprised of low-income customers. The program shall be expanded by 50 megawatts upon qualification of satisfying the $30\%$ requirement of low-income participation.  

C. Any shared solar facility may colocate on the same parcel of land as another shared solar facility only if such facilities are owned by the same entity and do not exceed an accumulative maximum capacity of 5,000 kilowatts among all such facilities. Such facilities will also be responsible for any special interconnection arrangements with the utility.  

D. Customers participating in this program shall remain in their present customer class but may not participate in the multi-family solar program, pursuant to Chapters 1187, 1188, 1189, and 1239 of the 2020 Acts of Assembly, or the net metering program, pursuant to 20VAC5-315, while participating in this program.  

E. Each utility must file any tariffs, agreements, or forms necessary for implementation of the program within 60 days of the utility's full implementation of a new customer information platform or by July 1, 2023, whichever occurs first, to process customer subscriptions. Subscriber organizations may apply for licenses, register projects, interact with potential customers, and otherwise develop shared solar projects beginning in 2021.  

F. The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed not to prohibit the Phase II Utility, in emergency situations, from taking actions it is otherwise authorized to take that are necessary to ensure public safety and reliability of the distribution system. The commission, upon a claim of inappropriate action or its own motion, may investigate and take such corrective actions as may be appropriate.  

G. A request for a waiver of any of the provisions in this chapter shall be considered by the State Corporation Commission on a case-by-case basis and may be granted upon such terms and conditions as the State Corporation Commission may impose.  

Statutory Authority  

§§ 12.1-13 and 56-594.3 of the Code of Virginia.  

Historical Notes  

Derived from Virginia Register Volume 37, Issue 11, eff. January 1, 2021.  

Website addresses provided in the Virginia Administrative Code to documents incorporated by reference are for the reader's convenience only, may not necessarily be active or current, and should not be relied upon. To ensure the information incorporated by reference is accurate, the reader is encouraged to use the source document described in the regulation.  

As a service to the public, the Virginia Administrative Code is provided online by the Virginia General Assembly. We are unable to answer legal questions or respond to requests for legal advice, including application of law to specific fact. To understand and protect your legal rights, you should consult an attorney.  