Buildings of Excellence Early Design Support Request for Proposal (RFP) 3928- D Up to $\$1,000,000$ NYSERDA reserves the right to extend or add funding at its sole discretion.  

Applications accepted continuously through November 15, 2025, by 3:00 p.m. Eastern Time (ET)\* or until funds are fully committed, whichever occurs first\*.  

The Buildings of Excellence Early Design Support Request for Proposal (the “EDS RFP”) seeks Proposals for qualified design firms that will provide early-stage design support for new construction, adaptive reuse, and gut rehabilitation multifamily projects that will be clean and resilient, beautiful, and functional, and will provide healthy, safe, comfortable, and resilient living spaces for their occupants. Funding through the EDS RFP may be made available to projects that will achieve carbon neutral performance and will also be profitable for their developers and owners and demonstrate realistic cost reductions in the design and construction phases. The EDS RFP is part of the larger Buildings of Excellence Competition (the “Competition”). Design firm Partner Proposers (the “Partner Proposers”) to the EDS RFP must demonstrate how their design firm has engaged with prior projects or will engage with future projects  to substantially reduce energy use and per capita carbon emissions, while increasing building resiliency, including passive and active survivability, successfully integrating architectural design attributes, and improving health, comfort, safety, and productivity for occupants, in a manner that can be replicated at scale. Successful Partner Proposers will become design firm Partners (the “Partners”) under the EDS RFP.  

Partner Proposers must prepare Partner Proposals that will demonstrate (1) competence in clean, resilient, and carbon neutral design that is coupled with architectural design quality and innovation, (2) ability to deliver high quality and functional, clean, resilient, and carbon neutral multifamily projects at competitive costs, (3) how their projects generate interest in and demand for the design, construction, and occupation of clean, resilient, and carbon neutral buildings, and (4) their commitment to share information related to the project’s design, costs, and performance to support the decisionmaking processes employed to achieve the desired outcomes.  

The EDS RFP will consider funding the early-stage design of projects that intend to serve all portions of the multifamily market sector, while primarily focusing on mid- to high-rise (8 stories or greater in height) multifamily buildings and for projects that involve the adaptive re-use of commercial office, institutional, or retail space to provide multifamily housing. Through the EDS RFP, Partners will prepare Project Proposals for early-stage clean, resilient, and carbon neutral design support, as well as support for initiatives focused on broad marketing and public awareness. Partners are eligible to receive up to $\$1.50$ /square foot in direct funding, up to a per project-cap of $\$150,000$ , for the proposed projects.  

Partner and Project Proposal Submissions: Electronic submission via the NYSERDA portal is preferable. Partner Proposers may submit Word, Excel, or pdf files (file formats include the following: csv, doc, docx, gif, jpeg, jpg, pdf, png, ppt, pptx, pps, ppsx, tif, txt, xls, xlsx, and zip). Individual files should be 50 MB or less in file size. Proposal pdfs should be searchable and should be created by direct conversion from MS Word, or other conversion utility. Files should not be scanned. For ease of identification, all electronic files must be named using the Partner Proposer’s entity name in the title of the document. NYSERDA also accepts Proposals by mail or hand delivery if electronic submission is not possible. For detailed instructions on how to submit a Proposal (electronic or paper submission), follow the Application Instructions and Portal Training Guide [PDF] located on NYSERDA’s Current Solicitations and Funding Opportunities website.  

Information: The program team may periodically provide updates on this opportunity. Fill out this form to be notified of updates or informational webinars that may be scheduled. Submitting your contact information will ensure you will also be notified of when funding has been depleted or when additional funds are made available.  

Contact Information: For technical questions, contact Kristin Graham (designated contact) at kristinnc@nyserda.ny.gov or (518) 862-1090 ext. 3069. For contractual questions concerning this solicitation, contact Thomas Rood (designated contact) at Tom.Solicitations@nyserda.ny.gov.  

No communication with NYSERDA staff intended to influence this procurement is permitted. Contacting anyone other than the designated personnel (either directly by the Partner Proposer or indirectly through a lobbyist or other person acting on the Partner Proposer’s behalf) in an attempt to influence the procurement may disqualify the Partner Proposer from consideration.  

\* All Partner and Project Proposals must be received by 3 p.m. (ET) on the date noted above. Late, faxed, or emailed Proposals will not be accepted.  Incomplete Proposals may be subject to disqualification. It is the Partner Proposer’s responsibility to ensure that all submission requirements have been met. Please note the following: for electronic submissions via the portal, there are required questions that need to be answered in addition to uploading attachments. Be sure to allot at least 60 minutes to enter and submit Proposals. The electronic Proposal system closes promptly, and files in process or attempted edits or submission after 3 p.m. (ET) on the date above will not be accepted.  

If changes are made to this solicitation before the due date, notification specific to this solicitation will be posted on NYSERDA’s Current Solicitations and Funding Opportunities website.  

# I. Introduction  

The use of fossil fuels, such as natural gas, propane, oil, and coal, releases carbon dioxide and other emissions into the atmosphere that contribute to climate change and other environmental impacts. Climate change will put buildings, and their systems and occupants, at greater risk in the future of hazards such as flooding, sea level rise, increased temperatures, and more frequent and more extreme storm events. Eliminating the use of fossil fuels to support building operations will decrease carbon dioxide and other emissions.  

NYSERDA seeks to increase the number of design firms participating in the development of aesthetically pleasing, cost-effective, clean, resilient, and carbon neutral buildings as well as increasing the proficiency among these firms in delivering clean and resilient design. By directly funding design firms, NYSERDA aims to drive market development by:  

1. Increasing the design firm’s capacity and expertise to complete the analyses, design, engineering, and research needed to produce cost effective, clean, resilient, and carbon neutral buildings,   
2. Supporting the design community with resources and tools that will help design firms comply with upcoming policy requirements, local laws, and advancing code cycles,   
3. Funding additional research, design detailing, modeling, and cost analyses on individual projects that the design firm can then apply to other projects within the firm’s portfolio in a quest to make carbon neutral attributes part of the firm’s general design practice. The project knowledge acquired will ideally result in a scaling up of the number of clean, resilient, and carbon neutral buildings the design firm can implement,   
4. Reducing market barriers and soft costs associated with the design of new and existing clean, resilient, and carbon neutral buildings. The EDS RFP provides funding at early design phases, when energy efficient design decisions are being made, to help buy down and reduce upfront risks associated with high performance design exploration,   
5. Assisting Partners in convincing more developers to successfully build clean, resilient, and carbon neutral projects. Additional design work, research, modeling, and economic analysis can produce quality, objective data, and pertinent information that, if acted on and included in the building design, could mitigate carbon impacts, provide better living conditions for occupants, and financial benefits to building owners. This information can be used to build developer confidence in clean, resilient, and carbon neutral buildings and create a lower risk for the developer to proceed with the project design, innovation, and nascent and novelty systems.  

# Partner Opportunity  

NYSERDA first seeks Proposals for design firms to become Partners that will provide early-stage design support on projects that will be beautiful, clean, resilient, carbon neutral, and functional spaces for their occupants. Successful Partner Proposers must demonstrate how their firm:  

1. Successfully designed, through the completion of construction documents, three (3) or more carbon neutral or net zero energy multifamily buildings, or mixed-use buildings that incorporate multifamily occupancy as the primary use, i. An exception to the above eligibility requirements applies to design firms interested in pursuing Provisional Partner status. For this designation, design firms may apply without having any completed project work examples. Design firms will be required to provide a Letter of Intent that outlines the firm’s plan to participate in the carbon neutral design space, in lieu of project work examples.  

2. Possesses expertise in clean and resilient design that achieves carbon neutral performance by reducing energy use,  

3. Addresses architectural design attributes, at the unit, building, site, and community level,   
4. Delivers designs that encompass non-energy co-benefits for occupants, while providing exceptional comfort, health, safety, and otherwise outstanding living environments for occupants,   
5. Delivers designs that reduce total carbon impacts, including reductions to embodied carbon,   
6. Increases the building’s and building components’ resilience,   
7. Addresses design strategies that can achieve reductions in overall project costs,   
8. Has active engagement in the multifamily market and would likely be able to submit high impact, scalable, and highly replicable multifamily projects to the early design program during the open period.  

# Eligible Services for Partners  

Partners will be able to submit Project Proposals to request funding to assist in designing clean, resilient, carbon neutral projects that anticipate and meet developer needs. Early design phase services that Partners can receive funding for may include, but not be limited to:  

1. Complete in-depth research necessary to deliver clean, resilient, and carbon neutral performance, including but not limited to topics such as:  

i. Electrification,   
ii. Densification,   
iii. Grid Interactivity   
iv. Renewable energy systems,   
v. Energy storage (thermal and electric), vi. Energy system selection.  

2. Complete additional research in one or more of the following areas:  

i. Ensuring building, component, community, and occupant resilience, and active and passive survivability, including but not limited to topics such as strategies that are designed to be resilient for the lifespan of the strategy or system,   
ii. Reductions to embodied carbon in building and finish materials, processes, or other design attributes,   
iii. Purposeful use of materials that achieve carbon sequestration,   
iv. Reductions to the total volume of refrigerants,   
v. The use of lower Global Warming Potential (GWP) refrigerants,   
vi. Strategies to minimize risks associated with potential refrigerant leaks,   
vii. Health, safety, productivity, and comfort non-energy co-benefits to occupants, including but not limited to topics such as healthy indoor air quality.  

3. Complete additional modeling necessary to achieve carbon neutral performance, including but not limited to:  

i. System selection and associated energy savings over baseline,   
ii. System selection and associated cost savings,   
iii. Embodied carbon and refrigerant gases,   
iv. Certifications and design elements associated with ENERGY STAR® Multifamily New Construction (ENERGY STAR MFNC), Enterprise Green Community (EGC), International Living Future Institute (ILFI) Living Building Challenge, Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), Passive House Institute (PHI), and Passive House Institute US (Phius) standards.  

4. Complete early-stage applications for third party standards and certifications, including but not limited to:  

i. AIA 2030, ASHRAE beQ, ENERGY STAR, Fitwel, Green Globes, ILFI, LEED, RELi, and WELL Building Standards.  

5. Complete additional economic analysis that will help substantively reduce the overall cost of the project, be replicated at scale, and inform design decisions including, but not limited to topics such as:  

i. First cost expenditures,   
ii. Return on investments,   
iii. Total value propositions,   
iv. Cost benefit ratios,   
v. Operating and maintenance costs,   
vi. Non-compliance to Local Laws and other impending policies.  

6. Complete cleaning, operational, and maintenance manuals, plans, and procedures that can be used by the building owners to assist in system longevity, refrigerant management, and operational waste reduction,  

7. Participate in additional meetings to facilitate an integrated design and construction project,  

8. Complete a more robust promotion and publicity plan that will disseminate information to the market that will be useful to the industry and better inform the public of clean, resilient, and carbon neutral performance and projects and be aimed at increasing replicability and scalability of these projects.  

# Project Proposal Opportunity  

The EDS RFP intends to select Project Proposals from Partners that demonstrate the greatest potential for success and replication in the market. The Partners must demonstrate that the design strategies proposed in their Project Proposals are replicable, scalable, and have the potential to achieve broad-based adoption within their own business practices and by other design teams, developers, and consumers.  

Partners are encouraged to apply for early design funding to support projects that are adaptive re-use or gut rehabilitation, especially in the conversion of commercial institutional, office, and retail space to multifamily housing, as defined in Section II - Eligibility of the EDS RFP. Partners should prioritize submitting projects for early design support that are eight (8) stories or greater in height.  

Partners may be eligible for an award of $100\%$ of early-stage design support funding to support clean, resilient, carbon neutral design of up to $\$1.50$ square foot, up to a per project-cap of $\$150,000$ . Funding will not be awarded for basic architectural and design services not associated with clean, resilient, and carbon neutral design.  

The project funding is available to contracted projects for three years from the date of the contract. If the project is making progress and funding is still available, the project team may request an extension to the project period. The funding may be extended at NYSERDA's sole discretion.  

# II. Eligibility  

NYSERDA, at its sole discretion, determines the eligibility of a Partner Proposer to become a Partner and for the eligibility of a Project Proposal to receive funding under the EDS RFP.  

# Market Sector  

# 1. Partner Proposals  

Partner Proposals will be considered based on the demonstrated experience and skills of the Partner Proposer in serving the multifamily market sector. The project work samples included as part of Partner Proposals should be for multifamily buildings located anywhere in the United States of America. Project work samples do not need to be located within New York State.  

# 2. Project Proposals  

Partners may submit Project Proposals under the EDS RFP for early-stage funding and support to achieve carbon neutral performance for new construction, adaptive reuse, or gut rehabilitation multifamily projects located anywhere in New York State, as funding allows. The proposed project site will need to be selected and identified in Project Proposals.  

# Project Status  

# 1. Partner Proposals  

The project work samples included as part of Partner Proposals will need to have the design completed through construction documents, at a minimum.  

# 2. Project Proposals  

Projects being proposed for the EDS RFP by a Partner must be in the programming, concept, or early schematic design phase (prior to $50\%$ schematic design), as of the date the Proposal is submitted to NYSERDA. Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing drawings cannot be restarted to receive funding if the rest of the project is further along in the design or construction phases.  

# General Eligibility  

# 1. Partner Eligibility  

Partner Proposer eligibility under this solicitation will be determined by the design firm’s credentials, experience, past projects, and marketing efforts. Partner Proposers must demonstrate that they can provide clean, resilient, carbon neutral design services as required by NYSERDA. Carbon neutral design services under the EDS RFP are defined in Section III, Project Proposal description. Design firm capabilities will need to be validated by NYSERDA.  

For a Partner Proposal to be deemed eligible, the design firm must provide credentials of currently employed staff members and evidence that those staff members have successfully designed carbon neutral multifamily or mixed-use projects while employed at the Partner Proposer’s firm. Joint venture entities created for the sole purpose of responding to the EDS RFP will not be considered. Applicants do not need to have offices located in New York State to respond to the EDS RFP. Partner Proposers must also submit evidence of design work on a minimum of three (3) carbon neutral or net zero energy multifamily buildings, or mixed-use buildings that incorporate multifamily occupancy as the primary use. Project examples and experience may be for new construction, adaptive re-use, or gut rehabilitation projects in which design has been completed through the completion of construction documents, while construction may or may not have been completed.  

Design firms interested in pursuing Provisional Partner status may be eligible for an exception to the above project work sample eligibility requirements. For this designation, design firms may apply without having any completed project work examples but must submit a Letter of Intent as outlined in the Introduction section of the EDS RFP. While Provisional Partners are limited to receiving early design support funding for one (1) project per calendar year, they can, and are encouraged to, work on additional carbon neutral multifamily design projects concurrently to the project funded through the EDS RFP. A Provisional Partner may progress to full status upon the submission of three (3) carbon neutral or net zero energy designs for multifamily buildings, or mixed-use buildings that incorporate multifamily occupancy as the primary use, as outlined within the EDS RFP.  

Partners that were approved under earlier versions for the EDS RFP and continue to be in good status will remain in an active status under the current version of the EDS RFP.  

# 2. Project Proposal Eligibility  

To be eligible for early design support funding, the Partner must be a member of the project’s design team and have the authority, or have been given the authority by the owner, to modify the building design. The Partner must also demonstrate that their internal and external project team, including sub-consultants, have the capabilities to perform and successfully complete the design process of the proposed project through the production of construction documents as a multidisciplinary and integrated project delivery team.  

Partners under the EDS RFP may elect to submit more than one (1), but not more than four (4) clean, resilient, and carbon neutral Project Proposals, for different projects in different locations, within one (1) calendar year, to receive early design support funding. Of those four (4) Project Proposals, a maximum of two (2) Project Proposals with the same developer or owner will be eligible. Multiple, alternative Project Proposals submitted for a single project will result in the disqualification of all Project Proposals.  

For a Project Proposal to be eligible for consideration to receive early design support funding, the proposed site must be identified in the Proposal, the land must be acquired for use for the project, and the project must incorporate multifamily occupancy as the primary use. This includes buildings that incorporate dwelling units, sleeping units, congregate living, or residence halls. Proposed projects may contain nonresidential space; however, the non-residential space must consist of less than $50\%$ of the occupiable square footage of the entire project. Proposed Projects are limited to buildings of at least 25,000 square feet of conditioned space. Buildings that provide student housing, including residence halls, that are owned or operated by a municipality or by New York State are not eligible to participate. Hotels, motels, or other hospitality-related buildings are not eligible to participate.  

The EDS RFP is available for projects located anywhere in New York State, regardless of whether the project will be located in an investor-owned electricity distribution company service territory. Partners are encouraged to submit projects for early design support funding that are located within Downtown Revitalization Initiative (DRI) districts or disadvantaged communities (DAC) as defined by New York State.  

A Project Proposal can encompass one multifamily building, or a portfolio of similar and related multifamily buildings located on the same site or on adjacent and associated sites. One- and two-family homes or townhouses as defined within Chapter 2, the Definitions Section of the International Building Code and International Residential Code, are not eligible as a standalone project or as part of a multi-building Project Proposal. Project Proposals for multiple buildings that do not meet that criterion should be submitted by the Partner as separate and unique Project Proposals.  

Eligible multifamily projects are as follows:  

1. New Construction: A new building, buildings, or an addition, where a licensed professional architect or engineer has prepared and certified the building design documents.   
2. Adaptive Re-use or Gut Rehabilitation: Substantial renovation for one of the following types of projects where a licensed professional architect or engineer has prepared and certified the building design documents: i. Change of use and reconstruction of an existing building, buildings, or space(s) within a building, ii. Construction work of a nature requiring that the building, buildings, or space(s) within a building to be out of service and unoccupied for a minimum of thirty (30) days, iii. Reconstruction of a vacant structure, or structures, or space(s) within a building, iv. The addition to or expansion of a building, in combination with any of the above.  

3. Adaptive Re-use of Commercial Office, Institutional, or Retail Buildings to Multifamily Use: The existing building must have been previously occupied and used as commercial office, institutional, or retail space.  

i. Substantially new mechanical systems required to support occupancy as housing must be necessary, including the installation of kitchen and bathroom waste and supply piping, balanced ventilation that meets requirements for residential occupancy, and other attributes required to support conversion of existing commercial office, institutional, or retail to multifamily use.  

The proposed project must demonstrate clean, resilient, and carbon neutral attributes, and meet the definition of Carbon Neutral as defined below.  

Projects receiving early design support funding may also be eligible for and separately propose to receive project funding through forthcoming demonstration RFPs associated with the Competition, as well as some other funding opportunities offered by NYSERDA and utility service providers. Projects that have been awarded or are seeking funding for design support services from NYSERDA’s PON 4614 or PON 5614 will need to clearly indicate duplicative funding is not being provided for the same scope of design work. Partners must review the rules and eligibility of all other programs, including utility programs, to determine if those funds are accessible in combination with funds offered by the EDS RFP.  

Project Proposals to the EDS RFP are not eligible for award if they have already been awarded funding under previous rounds of the demonstration project Competition, and intend to seek or have already been awarded Clean Energy Initiative (CEI) funding distributed by the New York State Homes and Community Renewal (HCR), or funding distributed through the New York City Housing Preservation and Development (HPD) Future Housing Initiative or any of their sub-agencies that is provided by NYSERDA through the Clean Energy Fund and intended to support goals similar to those promoted through the EDS RFP. Project Proposals that appear to be for designs of similar building sizes, floor plan layouts, or system selections as existing projects, or for subsequent phases of existing projects using similar building sizes, floor plan layouts, and system selections are not eligible.  

# Carbon Neutrality and Energy Performance  

The Partner must confirm that the projects submitted in both the Partner and early design support Project Proposals will be Carbon Neutral based on the following criteria: A project that excludes all fossil fuels from the building systems and equipment qualifies to be Carbon Neutral. Building systems and equipment refers to at a minimum: building heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC), domestic hot water (DHW), kitchen, laundry, and other appliances. Projects that rely on a fossil fuel-fired generator for emergency use only, or projects which are served by an off-site fossil fuel-fired central heating plant, may at NYSERDA’s sole discretion qualify as carbon neutral if fossil fuel use is excluded from all other building systems and equipment. NYSERDA, at its sole discretion, will consider exemptions to the Carbon Neutral rule for process and other unregulated loads on the site on a case-by-case basis.  

Additionally, the Partner must rely on one (1) of the following Standards to establish the minimum projected energy efficiency and building performance selected for the Proposed project’s residentialassociated space1 will be met and that the firm’s previous work sample project’s residential-associated space1 has been met. One (1) of the following Standards will need to be clearly indicated in the  Partner Proposals and Project Proposals to show the building performance was met in each of the work sample projects included and to show the intended building performance for all the proposed projects. The Partner must provide documentation associated with any selected Standard as a deliverable for early design support funding.  

1. Appendix G of ASHRAE Standard 90.1: Partners intending to rely on this standard to model and predict energy performance must commit to designing a project that will achieve a minimum modeled source (primary) energy savings1 of $20\%$ when compared with a project design that complies with the relevant Energy Conservation Construction Code of New York State (ECCC of NYS), currently the 2020 version; excluding the impacts of any proposed renewable energy generation. Energy performance must be established without the inclusion of any renewable or distributed energy generation, to confirm the energy efficiency performance threshold has been met, and then again calculated after renewable or distributed energy generation has been included in the energy model and submitted by the Partner to support evaluation of the energy efficiency of the design. Partners will apply a 2.55 source-to-site conversion factor to support the calculation of efficiency in comparison with the natural gas baseline relied on by this standard to confirm the minimum energy performance threshold will be met. Partners must commit to use of the $^{\mathfrak{a}}90.1$ Section 11 and Appendix G Compliance Form” to establish simulation inputs and complete internal quality control.  

i. Partner Proposers that have relied on this standard for previous projects included as work samples in the Partner Proposal must show documentation that this process was followed for the project, including indicating the version of the ECCC of NYS that was in place at the time of the design.  

2. Projects intending to meet certification requirements as published by Phius (Passive House Institute U.S.) must identify the building(s)’ modeled source (primary) energy use1 in terms of kWh/person/year; and projects intending to meet certification requirements published by the Passive House Institute (PHI) must identify the building(s)’ modeled source (primary) energy use in terms of kBtu/treated-floor-area/year. Partners committing to achieving certification to either passive house standard are deemed as meeting the minimum modeled source energy savings1 requirements. Energy modeling must be completed and submitted both with and without the use of renewable or distributed energy generation to support evaluation of the efficiency of the design. Alternative energy modeling will not be expected of the Partner committing to achieving certification to either passive house standard to support their predicted energy performance.  

i. Partner Proposers that have relied on this standard for previous projects included as work samples in the Partner Proposal must show documentation that this process was followed for the project.  

3. The average Energy Rating Index (ERI) for all residential dwelling units, calculated in accordance with the relevant version of the ANSI / RESNET / ICC 301 standard, entitled “Standard for the Calculation and Labeling of the Energy Performance of Dwelling and Sleeping Units Using an Energy Rating Index”, currently the 2019 version. To demonstrate the minimum energy performance1 threshold will be met, the Partner must commit that the project will meet the relevant EPA ENERGY STAR $\textcircled{8}$ Multifamily New Construction Program requirements; and that the average ERI will, at minimum, achieve the U.S. Department of Energy Zero Energy Ready Home Multifamily v2 or an $\mathsf{E R I}\leq0.75\times$ MFNC v1.1 ERI Target without inclusion of renewable energy generation. The Partner must also submit any external calculations supporting the site energy (kBtu/yr) indicated in the Project Proposal, including calculations of energy use in residentialassociated spaces1, as well as the average ERI calculated with the inclusion of renewable energy generation, as applicable.  

i. Partner Proposers that have relied on this standard for previous projects included as work samples in the Partner Proposal must show documentation that this process was followed for the project.  

# III. Partner Proposal and Project Proposal Requirements and Format  

The EDS RFP is a two-step Proposal process. The Partner Proposer’s firm will first submit a Proposal to become a Partner. Partners approved through the EDS RFP will receive an Agreement (consistent with the Attachment A – Sample Agreement) that will remain in effect for two (2) years after the date the Partner Proposal was received by NYSERDA. The Agreement does not guarantee work or funding from NYSERDA. At the end of each contract period, each design firm Partner will be evaluated based on the performance criteria in the EDS RFP, and NYSERDA will reserve the right to extend the Agreement for an additional term. Upon qualification under the EDS RFP, Partners will then be able to submit Project Proposals for which they will perform early design support. Both the Partner Proposals and Project Proposals will be reviewed on a continuous basis, until either the EDS RFP closes or until funding has been exhausted.  

Partner Proposals must be submitted by the Partner Proposer’s firm, which must be a singular entity. Once approved, Partners must submit Project Proposals.  

The quality, rigor, and organization of the Partner and Project Proposals will impact their evaluation, in part as a reflection of the likelihood that a selected Partner will be successful in reaching their stated goals. Inconsistencies within proposals (e.g., descriptions, drawings, or data across all documents) may also impact evaluation.  

# 1. Partner Proposal  

The Partner Proposal structure should follow the outline listed below, and sequentially address the review criteria listed in the “Partner Review Criteria” table in Section III - Proposal Format of the EDS RFP. The Partner Proposer must identify the project work sample’s status as of the date of submission, as defined and detailed in Section II - Eligibility of the EDS RFP. The firm name, RFP number, and page number should be recorded on every page of the Partner Proposal, including attachments.  

The Partner Proposer must submit the following for the Partner Proposal:  

# 1. Executive Summary  

Partner Proposers must submit a brief description ( $\mathbf{\tilde{\rho}}^{\sim400}$ words) summarizing how the proposing firm’s experience, services, and skills demonstrate the design and delivery of successful clean, resilient, and carbon neutral projects. In addition, the Partner Proposal must include an abbreviated description $(\sim100$ words) for use in the presentation and promotion of selected Partners. The Executive Summary should not exceed one (1) page and include, but not be limited to:  

1. Firm Information – including the company name, primary contact, location, size, overall mission, diversity equity and inclusion action policies, and market sector, specialized populations, and regions served,   
2. Firm Experience and Skills – including years in practice, the number of carbon neutral, net zero energy, and Passive House projects completed across all building sectors, awards received, specialized employee skills, indication that one team member is a Licensed Professional Architect (RA) or Professional Engineer (PE), and resumes and certification copies of relevant credentials that demonstrate experience in clean energy design held by current employed staff such as Certified Passive House Designer (CPHD), LEED Accredited Professional (LEED AP) or PHIUS+ Verifier,   
3. Firm Services Performed – including architectural and integrated design, planning, energy modeling, advanced clean energy consultation, carbon neutral research, designing to third party standards, and economic analysis.  

# 2. Market Transformation Capability Summary  

Partner Proposers must submit a brief description ( $\mathord{\left/{\vphantom{\mathord{\left/{\vphantom{\mathord{\left/{\vphantom{\left/{\vphantom{\left.2}}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\vphantom{\left/{\vphantom{\left.2}}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\vphantom{\left.2}}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\vphantom{\left.2}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\vphantom{\left.2}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\vphantom{\left.2}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\vphantom{\left.2}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\left.\begin{array}{r l}{\mathord{\left/{\vphantom{\left.2}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\vphantom{\left.2}}\right.\kern-\nulldelimiterspace}{\left.\begin{array}{r l}{\left.}\end{array}}\right.}$ words) summarizing how the proposing firm’s experience, services, and skills demonstrate how they create high impact influence through successful project marketing and promotion to educate and influence the market, disseminate information out to the market, and create market scalability and replicability. The Market Transformation Capability Summary should not exceed one (1) page and include, but not be limited to:  

1. Firm Information – including the name and role of current employed staff who act in a primarily marketing or promotion capacity, position in the market and amongst peers, number of social media followers and email distribution list subscribers, and engagement and relationship with special interest stakeholder entities, other New York State Agencies, and other governmental entities at the local and state level,   
2. Firm Experience and Skills – including the number of average annual presentations, speaking engagements, events and tours participated in, established relationships with media and press, and specialized outreach techniques employed based on targeted audience of other design professionals, developers, stakeholders, or tenants,   
3. Firm Services Performed – including general marketing and project promotion activities such as case studies, technical articles, blog posts, website updates, social media posts, email blasts, enewsletters, and any other way to demonstrate successful project marketing and promotion to educate and influence the market and create market replicability.  

# 3. Carbon Neutral Project Work Samples  

Partner Proposers must submit a minimum of three (3) project work samples (except for those firms interested in pursuing Provisional Partner status) for new construction or substantial renovation of multifamily or mixed-use projects in which the Partner Proposer’s firm has provided design services through construction documents resulting in carbon neutral or net zero energy buildings. The Partner Proposer should provide a clear and concise description of each project work sample that should not ceed a three (3) page format, not including project imagery. This section of the Partner Proposal shou exceed nine (9) pages of text. Supplemental documents are not included in the nine (9) page limit. ch project work sample should include:  

1. Project background – including design and construction schedule, year completed, square footage, number of buildings, stories, and units, construction type and methodology, building function, and populations served,   
2. Project location – including the building address and if located within a Downtown Revitalization Initiative (DRI) district, disadvantaged community (DAC) as defined by NYS, NYS Department o Environmental Conservation (DEC) Potential Environmental Justice area, Clean Energy Community (CEC), or a jurisdiction that has committed to adopting the NYS Energy Stretch Cod 2020,   
3. Project team – including a list of current staff member personnel, names, and roles of those wh worked on the project,   
4. Detailed scope of work completed – including design processes employed and a complete listin of design services provided,   
5. Key architectural design attributes implemented as they relate to the aesthetics, amenities, articulation, materiality, fenestration, natural light, acoustics, functionality of the units and building, development of the project site, outdoor space, microclimate, site context, and ground level connectivity, and the project’s relationship to the surrounding community such as existing character and proximity to public transit,   
6. Clean, carbon neutral, and energy efficiency attributes – including carbon neutral or net zero status, documentation associated with the modeled or projected energy use, overall building performance, energy goals, energy savings measures and systems, solutions implemented, project compliance path followed and third-party certifications, renewables, fuel types, and the anticipated affects to the electrical grid,   
7. Building, component, occupant, and community resiliency, and passive and active survivability attributes implemented,   
8. Non-energy co-benefits implemented associated with health, comfort, safety, productivity, community connectivity, economic development, and other aspects to improve the living environments for occupants, and non-energy third-party certification, standards, or verification pursued,   
9. Features related to reducing the project’s embodied carbon, greenhouse gas emissions, and global warming potential,   
10. Innovations including industrialization of construction, reduction in construction waste, efficient mechanical systems, and how the innovations can be scaled and interact with the electrical grid   
11. Direct and indirect replicability or scalability potential of the project to support market transformation, including any awards won, and how the project affects, benefits, and fits into the firm’s business model and mission,   
12. Budget, project, operation, and maintenance costs, cost effectiveness, and cost reduction strategies implemented,   
13. Project renderings, photographs, and relevant architectural project drawings or design diagrams  

For design firms seeking the Provisional Partner status, a Letter of Intent prepared by the design firm will be required in lieu of project work samples. The Letter of Intent should include information on why the design firm would like to engage in clean, resilient, and carbon neutral projects and should identify barriers that have prevented the design firm from participating in this space before.  

# 4. Supplementary Documents  

The Partner Proposer must submit all supplementary documents listed here, as available, to support the Partner Proposal evaluation:  

1. Billable Rate Schedule for Partners,  

i. The Partner shall use the Project Personnel and Billing Rates form (found within Attachment A) to clearly indicate hourly salary rate range for each title classification proposed under the agreement with NYSERDA and other overhead multipliers you propose to use for the duration of the agreement with NYSERDA,   
ii. Provide rate and multiplier for services to be provided from date of the Project Proposal submission. These rates shall be independent of annual rates. The multiplier rate shall include all overhead, profit, and other costs. NYSERDA reserves the right to conduct a rate comparison amongst consultants and request changes to the rate schedule as applicable,   
iii. Please do not provide fully burdened rates in the chart.  

# 2. Project Proposal  

Upon receiving an executed agreement, Partners will be able to submit Project Proposals to receive funding for projects in the early design stages. The project must meet the eligibility requirements as indicated in Section II - Eligibility and the proposing Partner must be providing design services resulting in a carbon neutral or net zero energy building.  

The Project Proposal structure should follow the outline listed below, and sequentially address the review criteria listed in the “Early Design Support Project Review Criteria” table in Section III – Proposal Evaluation of the EDS RFP. The Partner must identify the proposed project’s status as of the date of submission, as defined and detailed in Section II - Eligibility of the EDS RFP. The Partner’s firm name, project name, RFP number, and page number should be recorded on every page of the Project Proposal, including attachments.  

Project Proposals should include a clear and concise description of the project, proposed early design stage services to be performed, and proposed project promotion, addressing each category detailed below and in the review criteria table. In order to receive funding, the proposed project must plan to be engaged in at least four (4) of the eight (8) listed Early Design Support Services options. Project Proposals should not exceed ten (10) pages, not including supplemental project documents. Project Proposals must be submitted by the Partner, who must submit the following for each Project Proposal:  

# 1. Proposed Project Description  

1. Project description - including project status, design and construction schedule, square footage, number of buildings, stories, and units, construction type and methodology, building function, populations served, and third-party standards designed to,  

2. Project location - including the building address and if the project is located within a Downtown Revitalization Initiative (DRI) district, disadvantaged community (DAC) as defined by NYS, NYS Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) Potential Environmental Justice area, Clean Energy Community (CEC), or a jurisdiction that has committed to adopting the NYS Energy Stretch Code 2020,  

3. Project team – including a list of specific individual names and roles, the developer or owner of the project, firms acting in either a sub consultant capacity or as another partner on the project for additional design, engineering, certification, quality control, construction manager, general contracting, and an indication of whether integrated design or construction will be employed on the project,  

4. Key architectural design attributes - including descriptions on aesthetics, building and unit design and functionality, amenities, articulation of public and common spaces, use of natural light, project site design, relationship to site context, acoustical quality, and innovation. Other design attributes can include, but not be limited to:  

i. Building articulation, use of durable and high-quality materials, fenestration patterns and types, and use of efficient interior and exterior lighting,   
ii. Specific site context considerations can include, but not be limited to, building scale, shape, massing and density, ground level connectivity, use of outdoor space, incorporating natural light and access to views in building and unit design, and controlling the associated microclimate including shadowing, wind, and snow, and incorporating native plantings,   
iii. Relationship to the larger community can include, but not be limited to, location in a DAC, DRI, or CEC, overall community connectivity, respect of the existing community character, and site and infill development,   
iv. Transit oriented considerations can include but are not limited to, proximity to public transportation like bus, subway, commuter and light rail lines, and rapid transit stations or commuter ferry terminals, and the inclusion of bicycle storage and vehicle charging stations,   
v. Innovations in design can include, but not be limited to, the industrialization of construction through modular or prefabricated methodologies, reduction in construction waste, use of efficient mechanical systems, and storm water strategies,   
vi. Consideration on how the project’s overall design will be impacted by, accommodate, and integrate the energy performance, resilience, non-energy co-benefits, reductions to embodied carbon, and other strategies proposed for the project.  

5. Clean building attributes and design - including carbon neutral or net zero status, how the project meets the definition of the Carbon Neutral definition as noted in Section II - Eligibility, project compliance path followed, overall building performance, energy goals, energy savings measures and systems, solutions implemented, renewables, fuel types, and the anticipated effects to the electrical grid,  

i. Indication of the expected, predicted, or modeled energy use and operational energy costs of the project. Predicted impacts of the project as proposed can include CO2/person and CO2/SF. A description of how the energy use and operational energy cost were calculated should be provided, along with documentation associated with the modeled or projected energy use and standard selected,   
ii. Projects proposing the use of larger commercial Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) air-source heat pump (ASHP) systems that require long lengths of piping and multiple in-field connections will not be eligible for funding,  

6. Design strategies that increase the resilience of the building, its components, occupants, and the surrounding community. These strategies should increase the active and passive resilience of the building,  

i. Indication and assessment of each project-specific resilience risk, both current and anticipated throughout the project‘s useful life (e.g., more intense heat waves and increased frequency  

and severity of flooding), and detailed description of how the proposed strategy (or combination of strategies) will increase resilience of the building and its occupants by addressing that risk.  

7. Strategies and attributes of any non-energy co-benefits incorporated into the proposed project’s design, that increase occupant comfort, health, productivity, and safety, community connectivity, economic development, and other aspects to improve the living environments for occupants, and the associated non-energy third party certifications, standards, or verifications being pursued,  

8. Strategies and features to reduce the proposed project’s embodied and operational carbon in materials, construction or operational processes, or other attributes, overall reduction in the total volume refrigerants and Global Warming Potential (GWP) refrigerants and greenhouse gas emissions, increased use of systems that require few or no refrigerant piping joints to be made on the construction site, and the use of materials that achieve carbon sequestration,  

9. Indication of the proposed project’s innovations including industrialization of construction, reduction in construction waste, efficient mechanical systems, how the innovations can be scaled, and how the innovations interact with the electrical grid,  

10. Project budget, proposed operation and maintenance costs, cost effectiveness, and cost reduction strategies implemented, including listing of any additional anticipated incentive programs,  

11. Indication of the proposed project’s replicability, as demonstrated by expected ease or efficiency of construction, economic viability for the market served, unique financing solutions, or other factors that would make the proposed project a model for future projects,  

12. Indication of the project’s direct and indirect replicability or scalability potential to support market transformation, including how this project affects, benefits, and fits into the firm’s business model and mission.  

# 2. Description of Proposed Early Design Support Services to be Performed for the Project  

In order to receive funding, the proposed project must plan to be engaged in at least four (4) of the eight (8) listed Early Design Support Services options. Each project must include a Resilience, Passive and Active Survivability and Market and Promotion Plan Scope of Work Service.  

1. Clean and Carbon Neutral Attributes and Energy Efficiency Scope of Services: Engage in practices associated with integrated design and construction to achieve clean, resilient, carbon neutral, and energy efficiency attributes in the proposed project. Strategies to achieve carbon neutral and net zero operational performance can include, but not be limited to:  

i. Engage in a comprehensive study for the proposed project’s strategies associated with operational energy efficiency, densification, electrification, demand flexibility, peak load reduction, and transit-oriented development,   
ii. Engage in detailed analysis of the proposed project’s energy systems, including but not limited to high performance building envelope, geothermal (ground-source or water-source) heat pump systems, energy storage (thermal and electric), on-site renewable energy systems, electrical grid interactivity and controls, on-site electric vehicle charging, battery storage, heating, cooling, domestic hot water, and ventilation components, appliances, renewable generation district, smart building controls and monitors, and other technologies,   
iii. Engage in an exploration of integrating different building standards and the associated design strategies, including but not limited to Passive House design into the proposed project,   
iv. Engage in practices associated with integrated design and construction to define and achieve the proposed project’s goals, involve key stakeholders, and establish a comprehensive and collaborative design approach,   
v. Explore how energy efficient strategies, components, and systems will be designed to be resilient for the lifespan of the strategy or system,   
vi. Complete modeling that is necessary to achieve carbon neutral performance, optimize energy efficiency and thermal performance, and identify opportunities for energy savings.  

2. Resilience, Passive and Active Survivability Scope of Services: Conduct research to expand on strategies to increase the resilience of the building, its components, occupants, and the surrounding community. These strategies should address forward-looking climate conditions, including a wider range of operating temperatures, increased incidences of flooding on site, extended power outages, and other extreme events. Strategies to achieve resilience, passive and active survivability can include, but are not limited to:  

i. Exploration of locating the building outside of the 100- or 500- year flood plain and raising living spaces and critical system components above 500- year flood level, at a minimum,   
ii. Exploration of creating areas of refuge within the building for occupants to shelter in place during extreme heat and cold events, power outages, or flooding, that incorporate HVAC systems that remain operable during power outages,   
iii. Research into ensuring adequate passive survivability during extended power outages by identifying the duration the building could remain safely occupied, while maintaining safe thermal conditions, natural light, natural ventilation, and other conditions,   
iv. Research into active resiliency strategies, such as satisfying critical loads for an extended duration using backup power or the use of energy storage solutions, potentially in combination with renewable energy generation,   
v. Exploring community resilience-enhancing strategies, such as providing community services, connecting to district systems to ensure diversity of energy resources, and reduction of vulnerability of the area surrounding the site to extreme heat,   
vi. Exploring strategies e that enable the building or community to adapt to, absorb or recover from events, such as mechanical systems that can accommodate future climate conditions.  

For any buildings in New York City that are expected to be subject to tidal inundation by 2080 or in the 2080 future floodplain and for buildings outside of New York City that are in the 500- year flood zone or that are otherwise at risk of current or future flooding, storm water management and flood-mitigation measures should be incorporated into the design. At a minimum, critical system components must be raised above the future tidal inundation or flood elevation, depending on location, unless an alternative flood-mitigation plan to protect those critical components is proposed, and ultimately determined to be acceptable during the proposed project’s review process, at NYSERDA’s sole discretion.  

Partners, regardless of the proposed project site location, may find the NYC Climate Resiliency Design Guidelines useful for resilience strategies and resources.  

For guidance on managing future flood risk, Partners may refer to the State Flood Risk Management Guidance and NYC Flood Hazard Mapper.  

For guidance on climate change and building resilience, Partners may refer to the ClimAID climate projections for New York State, the New York Adapting Buildings for a Changing  

Climate website, and the New York State Climate Impacts Assessment: Understanding and Preparing for Our Changing Climate.  

3. Quality of Non-Energy Co-Benefits Scope of Services: Investigate additional non-energy cobenefits to be incorporated into the proposed project’s design, including strategies that increase occupant comfort, health, productivity, and safety. Strategies to achieve successful integration of non-energy co-benefits include, but are not limited to:  

i. Research into attributes related to community connectivity, economic development, sustainability, durability, and other aspects to improve the living environments for occupants,   
ii. Research into actions to optimize indoor air quality, reduce indoor pollutants, and to safeguard against transmission of air-borne contaminants that cause allergies, asthma, and illness, such as use of Minimum Efficiency Performance Value (MERV) 13 air filters or better, and use of durable materials that limit moisture intrusion,   
iii. Research into integrating design attributes found in non-energy third party standards and feasibility of certification, validation or verification of non-energy co-benefits through third party standard(s) that incorporate health-related co-benefits.  

4. Reduction in Embodied Carbon Scope of Services: Conduct research to reduce embodied and operation carbon in the proposed project’s design. Strategies to reduce the proposed project’s overall carbon impact may include, but not be limited to:  

i. Research into strategies that reduce embodied and operational carbon in materials and the use of materials that achieve carbon sequestration,   
ii. Exploration into construction, operational, and waste reduction processes, or other design attributes,   
iii. Research into overall reduction to the total volume of refrigerants and greenhouse gas emissions, the use of lower Global Warming Potential (GWP) refrigerants, and increased use of systems that require few or no refrigerant piping joints to be made on the construction site,   
iv. Research into available modeling tools and financing options. Partners must conform to the NY Office of General Services GreenNY Specification: Lower Carbon Concrete and NYS Office of General Services Buy Clean Concrete Guidelines when specifying concrete.  

5. Innovation and Innovative Attributes Scope of Services: Investigate innovations that could be incorporated into the proposed project including industrialization of construction, reduction in construction waste, efficient mechanical systems, how the innovations can be scaled and replicated, and how the innovations interact with the electrical grid,  

6. Cost Reduction Strategies Scope of Services: Complete economic analyses of cost reduction strategies that have the capacity to substantively reduce the overall cost of the proposed project, and that will likely be replicated by other projects or design teams. Strategies to reduce the proposed project’s overall cost may include, but not be limited to:  

i. Analysis of energy efficiency solutions, resiliency strategies, and other characteristics of the project that are expected to impact the total, construction, operation, and maintenance costs, including strategies that will reduce total costs, the trade-offs and avoidance of cost increases, and how the overall costs of the proposed project compare with similar projects (e.g., Low- to Moderate-Income, mixed-income, market-rate, or luxury homes) in the same basic locale,  

ii. Exploring costs associated with improvements that can be recouped in terms of shortening the timeframe of on-site construction, increasing tenant retention rates, and higher rent or sales prices,   
iii. Completing first costs, return on investments, total value propositions, cost benefit rations, or non-compliance with Local Laws and other impending policies,   
iv. Analysis into why and how high-performance features of the proposed project provide both enhanced financial benefits to the owner/developer and attributes that lead to an improved or optimal living environment for the tenants (e.g., thermal comfort, indoor air and environmental qualities, improved acoustics, building resilience).  

7. Third Party Certification Scope of Services: Complete additional modeling and early-stage applications for third party certifications, standards, and verifications, and ensure that the associated standard criteria are incorporated into the design of the project,  

8. Market and Promotion Plan Scope of Services: Create a marketing and promotion plan that outlines the proposed methods mechanisms to generate public interest and demand for advanced clean, resilient, and carbon neutral buildings beyond and in addition to NYSERDA’s promotional activities as described in the “Collaboration with NYSERDA, Transparency, and Promotion of Projects” section of the EDS RFP. Strategies to market and promote the project may include, but not be limited to:  

i. Producing website content, magazine and technical articles, books, blogs, case studies, social media, videos, Podcasts, presentations, and engaging in speaking engagements.  

# 3. Collaboration with NYSERDA, Transparency, and Promotion of Projects  

The Partner should describe in the Project Proposal how they intend to create high impact influence through successful marketing and promotion of the proposed project, including disseminating information to the market that could be useful to the industry and better inform the public about clean, resilient, carbon neutral building performance that supports the elimination or reduction in use of fossil fuels, and be aimed at increasing market replicability and scalability. Marketing information the Partners may share includes but is not limited to information about the architectural design; clean, carbon neutral, and energy efficient attributes; resilient, active, and passive survivability attributes; non-energy co-benefits; cost reduction strategies; anticipated building performance; how this project will comply with upcoming local laws, policies, and advancing code cycles; and overall lessons learned. In accordance with the Proprietary provisions located in Section VIII “General Provisions”, the Partner should indicate which aspects of the proposed project information can be publicly shared by NYSERDA in its promotional activities and should stipulate if any portion or portions of the information should be reserved for NYSERDA’s internal use and/or for anonymized analysis, and not publicly shared as project-specific information. The extent to which the Partner commits to sharing proposed project data, as well as the quality of the Partner’s marketing plan intended to showcase the proposed project’s design and carbon neutral strategies, are considered during evaluation of the project Proposal. After a Project Proposal has received funding under the EDS RFP, NYSERDA may elect to disclose unprotected information, in whole or in part, on websites, social media, in publications, in presentations, or other venues. In addition, the Partner should outline their proposed methods or mechanisms for sharing this information through their marketing plan.  

Partners are expected to cooperate with NYSERDA in the development and review of marketing materials. NYSERDA credits the project name and Partner in all promotional material. Partners are expected to participate in presentations and other promotional events.  

# 4. Supplementary Documents  

The Partner must submit all supplementary documents listed here, as available, to support Project Proposal evaluation:  

1. Scope of work budget associated with the proposed early design support services to be performed for the project.  

i. Each scope of work item should have an associated funding amount,   
ii. Embodied carbon investigation will be capped at $15\%$ of the total requested funding,   
iii. Scope of work budgets should include line items for both the partner and any design team subconsultants performing early design support services. Project developers are not eligible to receive early design support funding.  

2. Personnel Resumes – one (1) page resumes that highlight recent, relevant experience of the proposed design team personnel who will be directly involved in the early design support services.  

i. The RA or PE resume must be included. Submission of a company-wide resume representing general services to be provided by various personnel does not meet the submission requirement.  

3. Architectural drawings as available, including but not limited to:  

i. Floor and unit plans,   
ii. Site plans,   
iii. At least one (1) building section and elevation, iv. Wall sections.  

4. Project rendering(s) - at least one (1) high-quality rendering,  

5. Design details as available, including but not limited to:  

i. Addressing energy efficient design, ii. Building envelope conditions, iii. Building resilience strategies.  

6. Project diagrams as available, including but not limited to:  

i. Building diagram(s) showing or explaining high performance/zero emissions features, including how they will remain resilient for their lifespan, ii. Building diagram(s) of quality of building characteristics and design features, iii. Building and site diagrams that show the project’s sustainability features, iv. Site diagrams that show how the project integrates with urban features.  

7. Energy modeling files and report(s) summarizing energy performance-related design strategies, if available,  

8. Scorecard(s) or checklist(s) for proposed, submitted, or achieved certifications, if available.  

Notes:  

1) Submitted materials may be used for the presentation of funded projects in various forums.  

2) Photographs and other images may be submitted as .pdf at the time of the Project Proposal but must be provided as high-resolution image files at 24 inches wide and 300 dpi for projects funded and upon request.   
3) Updates to the initially submitted materials may be requested for projects funded under the EDS RFP.  

# IV. Partner Proposal and Project Proposal Evaluation  

# 1. Partner Proposal  

Partner Proposals will first be reviewed for completeness and to ensure they meet “General Eligibility” requirements as detailed in the Section II - Eligibility of the EDS RFP. Partner Proposals that do not meet the listed requirements will not be further reviewed.  

The General Eligibility requirements for the Design Partner submission to be considered prior to content review include the following:  

1. The project work samples identified in the design firm Partner Proposal must meet the market sectors, Carbon Neutral-Ready definition, and meet and provide documentation to show the minimum achieved or projected energy efficiency and building performance criteria as detailed in the Eligibility Section II of this RFP.  

Following the initial completeness review, Partner Proposals will be evaluated based on their overall response and specifically based on the Categories and Category Descriptions as detailed in the “Partner Review Criteria” table.  

PARTNER REVIEW CRITERIA   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Category</td><td>CategoryDescription</td></tr><tr><td>Design Firm Experience</td><td>clean, resilient, and carbon neutral projects and meet the stated goals of the Competition.</td></tr><tr><td>Market Transformation Capability</td><td>proposingfirm'sexperience,services,andskillsdemonstratehowtheycreatehighimpactinfluence through successful project marketing and promotion to educate and influence the market, disseminate informationouttothemarket,andcreatemarketscalabilityandreplicability.</td></tr><tr><td>ProjectWork Samples</td><td>ThiscategorywillconsiderhowsuccessfullyPartnerProposershaveaddressed summarizing three(3)* newconstructionorsubstantial renovationmultifamily,andmixed-useprojects,inwhichthePartner Proposer'sfirmhasprovided designservicesresultingin carbonneutral or netzeroenergybuildings.</td></tr></table></body></html>

\*An exception to the above project work samples’ eligibility requirements applies to design firms interested in pursuing Provisional Partner status. For this designation, design firms may apply with a Letter of Intent prepared by the design firm in lieu of project work samples.  

# 2. Project Proposal  

Project Proposals submitted by Partners will first be reviewed for completeness and to ensure they meet “General Eligibility” requirements as detailed in the Section II - Eligibility of the EDS RFP. Project Proposals that do not meet the listed requirements will not be further reviewed.  

The General Eligibility requirements for the early design support Project Proposal submission to be considered prior to content review, include the following:  

1. The Proposed early design support Project is located in New York State, reflects multifamily occupancy as the primary use, meets the Carbon Neutral-Ready definition, meets the Project  

Status, and meets and will provide documentation to show the minimum projected energy efficiency and building performance criteria as detailed in the Eligibility Section II of this RFP.  

Following the initial completeness review, Proposals for proposed early design support projects will be evaluated based on their overall response and specifically based on the Categories and Category Descriptions as detailed in the “Project Proposal Review Criteria” table.  

# PROJECT PROPOSAL REVIEW CRITERIA  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Category</td><td>CategoryDescription</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Project Design Category</td></tr><tr><td>Quality of Architectural Design</td><td>attributes of the proposed project and how the project's overall design will be impacted by, embodied carbon, and other strategies into the proposed project.</td></tr><tr><td>Clean, Carbon Neutral, and Energy</td><td>This category will consider how successfully Partners have addressed clean, carbon neutral, and energy efficient attributes of the proposed project.</td></tr><tr><td>Efficiency Attributes Resilience, Passive and Active</td><td>This category will consider how successfully Partners have addressed strategies that increase the resilience andpassive and activeresilience of theproposed building,components,and its occupants</td></tr><tr><td>Survivability Quality of Non-Energy Co-Benefits</td><td>This category will consider how successfully Partners have addressed incorporating non-energy co- benefits into the proposed project design to ensure occupant comfort, health, productivity, and safety,</td></tr><tr><td>Reduction in Embodied Carbon</td><td>the living environments for occupants. This category will consider how successfully Partners have addressed incorporating features related to global warming potential of refrigerants.</td></tr><tr><td>Innovation</td><td>and electrical grid interactivity into the proposed project.</td></tr><tr><td>Cost Reduction</td><td>This category will consider how successfully Partners have implemented cost reduction strategies into the proposed project.</td></tr><tr><td>Market Transformation Capability</td><td>This category will consider how successfully Partners have addressed the proposed project's direct and affects,benefits,and fits into thefirm's business model and mission.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">EarlyDesignSupportScopeofServicesCategory</td></tr><tr><td>Clean and Carbon Neutral Attributes, and Energy Efficiency</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Resilience, Passive and Active Survivability Attributes</td><td>energy efficient attributes in the proposed project. This category will consider how successfullyPartners have addressed how they plan to expand on strategies to increase the resilience of the building, its components, occupants and surround community, and increase the active and passive resilience of the building.</td></tr><tr><td>Quality of Non-Energy Co-Benefits</td><td>additional non-energy co-benefits tobe incorporated into the proposed project to ensure occupant durability, and other aspects to improve the living environments for occupants.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Reduction in EmbodiedCarbon</td><td>additionalfeaturesrelatedtoreducingtheproposedproject'sembodiedandoperationalcarbon, greenhousegasemissions,andglobalwarmingpotentialimpactsofrefrigerants.</td></tr><tr><td>Innovationand InnovativeAttributes</td><td>This category will consider how successfully Partners have addressed how they plan to investigate innovations and electrical grid interactivity that could be incorporated into the proposed project.</td></tr><tr><td>CostReduction Strategies</td><td>This categorywill consider how successfullyPartnershave addressed how they plan to complete additional economic analyses for the proposed project.</td></tr><tr><td>ThirdParty Certifications</td><td>This category will consider how the Partners have completed additional modeling and early-stage applications for third party certifications, standards, and verifications.</td></tr><tr><td>Marketingand PromotionPlan</td><td>Thiscategorywillconsider howsuccessfullyPartnershaveaddressed how theyplantocreatehigh impact influence through successful marketing and promotion of the proposed project, including the sharing of information that could be useful to the industry and better inform the public of carbon neutral performance.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

To receive funding, the proposed project must plan to be engaged in at least four (4) of the eight (8) listed Early Design Support Services options, inclusive of the Resilience, Passive and Active Survivability and Marketing and Promotion Plan Scopes of Work.  

# Program Policy Factors  

NYSERDA reserves the right to accept or reject Project Proposals based on the following program policy factors:  

1. The degree to which the proposed project, including proposed cost share(s), optimizes the use of available funding to achieve NYSERDA’s overall programmatic and portfolio objectives, as specifically set forth in the EDS RFP.   
2. Diversity of awards within multiple locations, climates, regions, or other geographically articulated criteria (for example, disadvantaged communities or Regional Economic Development Regions).   
3. The degree to which there is portfolio diversity, including considerations as to funding duplicative efforts stemming from the EDS RFP itself or similar, previously funded efforts and considerations as to development stage of the cohort of proposed projects (for example, secured permits or financing, shovel-ready).  

# V. Funded Projects, Subsequent Submissions, and Required Updates  

Partners are required to execute an agreement (see Attachment A – Sample Umbrella Agreement) with NYSERDA and deliver completed projects that meet the requirements detailed in the EDS RFP. The project deliverables and associated time and material or milestone payments will be as detailed in the EDS RFP and the agreement executed between the selected Partner and NYSERDA.  

At any point during the design process, NYSERDA must be notified and provided associated details if significant deviation from the original Project Proposal is expected, including whether the project is expected to fall short of the building performance and related goals as detailed in the original Project Proposal, including the Partner’s commitment to achieving the source energy savings in their original Project Proposal to NYSERDA. Projects funded through the EDS RFP must ensure that the cumulative changes during design will not increase the predicted source energy use or carbon emissions in comparison to the project as originally submitted. Continuation of any project that deviates from the original Project Proposal will be subject to NYSERDA’s discretion. NYSERDA reserves the right to reduce the award amount or terminate any project should it fall below the originally committed energy performance.  

Additionally, the following submissions and updates are required:  

At $50\%$ completion of schematic design:  

1. Documentation associated with each of the proposed early design support services that have been performed for the project. Topics can include, but not be limited to:  

i. Which attributes have been investigated,   
ii. Why and how the attribute was investigated,   
iii. Results of the investigation and how the results relate to whether the attribute will be incorporated into the proposed project,   
iv. How the investigation affects, benefits, and fits into the Partner’s business model and m  

2. Updated project documentation, if applicable:  

i. One-page summary of major changes from the initial Project Proposal.   
ii. Documentation of submission to the certification(s) and standard(s) committed to by the Partner,   
iii. Marketing and Promotion Plan,   
iv. Drawings, renderings, or diagrams,   
v. Energy modeling files and carbon neutral design standard documentation,   
vi. Schedule of design and construction,   
vii. Project cost-related documentation.  

At $100\%$ completion of schematic design:  

1. Updated documentation associated with each of the proposed early design support services that have been performed for the project. Topics can include, but not be limited to:  

i. Which attributes have been investigated,   
ii. Why and how the attribute was investigated,   
iii. Results of the investigation and how the results relate to whether the attribute will be incorporated into the proposed project,   
iv. How the investigation affects, benefits, and fits into the Partner’s business model and mi  

2. Updated project documentation, if applicable:  

i. One-page summary of major changes from the $50\%$ schematic design submission,   
ii. Documentation of submission or updates to the submission to the certification(s) and standard(s) committed to by the Partner,   
iii. Marketing and Promotion Plan,   
iv. Drawings, renderings, or diagrams, v. Energy modeling files and carbon neutral design standard documentation, vi. Schedule of design and construction,   
vii. Project cost-related documentation.  

At the completion of design phase (construction documents):  

1. One-page summary of major changes from $100\%$ schematic design submission, 2. Final documentation associated with each of the proposed early design support services that have been performed for the project. Topics can include, but not be limited to:  

i. Which attributes have been investigated,   
ii. Why and how the attribute was investigated,   
iii. Results of the investigation and how the results relate to whether the attribute will be incorporated into the proposed project,   
iv. How the investigation affects, benefits, and fits into the Partner’s business model and miss  

3. Final, updated project documentation, if applicable:  

i.  Marketing and Promotion Plan,   
ii. Design drawings, renderings, or diagrams (suitable for presentations), iii. Energy modeling files and carbon neutral design standard documentation, iv. Schedule of construction,   
v. Project cost-related documentation,   
vi. One-page summary of lessons learned.  

# VI. Schedule of Payments  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td>Milestone</td><td>%OfTotalAward</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td>50%completionof schematicdesign</td><td>60%</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>100% completion of schematic design</td><td>30%</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Completion of design, construction documents</td><td>10%</td></tr></table></body></html>  

NYSERDA reserves the right to negotiate type (time and materials or milestone) as well as the amount or schedule of payments for a funded project. At its sole discretion, NYSERDA may reduce or withhold payments for a project that falls short of the proposed level of performance, or that has not met this solicitation’s minimum submission requirements.  

# VII. NYSERDA Responsibilities  

NYSERDA provides funding and support to projects in accordance with the EDS RFP of the Competition, as detailed in the EDS RFP.  

# VIII. Partner Responsibilities  

1. Partners are responsible for completing and promoting the use of effective, energy efficient products, services, and designs, as defined by the EDS RFP. The credibility of Partners and the quality of the design services they deliver are essential to NYSERDA’s success.  

2. Partners must update the project information that was initially provided in the Project Proposal, assist NYSERDA in promoting the project, and share information that will help the industry accelerate the design, construction, and operation of clean, resilient, high-performance buildings. All of which may be shared publicly unless otherwise noted.  

3. Partners must provide updated information related to the proposed project’s expected and evolving performance and cost data, throughout the course of the project design, in data collection formats requested by NYSERDA.  

4. Partners must allow the proposed project to be part of NYSERDA’s promotional efforts and to cooperate with NYSERDA in the creation and implementation of those efforts, including but not limited to articles, books, case studies, exhibitions, lectures, presentations, tours, social media, and other electronic marketing promotions including a Competition website. NYSERDA reserves the right to brand and market the funded projects as NYS Buildings of Excellence projects or a similar reference.  

5. Partners are responsible for abiding by the Terms and Conditions in the EDS RFP.  

6. If the Partner does not meet the minimum project responsibilities, their Partner status will be suspended until the project responsibilities have been met.  

7. If NYSERDA identifies an instance where these rules have not been followed, the Partner is responsible for fully cooperating in any investigation of a possible violation. Failure to comply may result in the Partner losing its active status.  

8. Partners are responsible for ensuring the customer agrees and authorizes their utility’s sharing of the participant-customer’s information and/or project-level information with New York State Department of Public Service Staff and NYSERDA, including its agents or authorized representatives, consistent with NYSERDA’s New York State Public Service Commission and statutorily authorized responsibilities, including, but not limited to supporting market development initiatives, and other evaluation and measurement activities. (For clarity, the term project level includes the information based on the scope of the project, including, but not limited to, aggregated and anonymized whole building, building or subsets of the project.)  

9. Partners are responsible for ensuring the participant agrees and authorizes the sharing of the participant-customer’s information and/or project-level information with New York State Department of Public Service Staff and appropriate local utility, including its agents or authorized representatives, in carrying out its responsibilities under New York State Public Service Commission orders. (For clarity, the term project level includes the information based on the scope of the project, including, but not limited to, whole building, building or subsets of the project.)  

Becoming a Partner is completely voluntary and NYSERDA can remove a Partner from the list at any time for any reason. NYSERDA may revoke the active status of the Partner and remove them from the website if the Partner does not meet all the Program requirements. Partners may also request to be removed from the active Partner list.  

# I. GENERAL CONDITIONS  

Proprietary Information: Careful consideration should be given before confidential information is submitted to NYSERDA as part of the proposal. Review should include whether the information is critical for evaluation and whether general, non-confidential information, would suffice for review purposes. The NYS Freedom of Information Law, Public Officers law, Article 6, provides for public access to information NYSERDA possesses. Public Officers  

Law, Section 87(2)(d) provides for exceptions to disclosure of records or portions thereof that "are trade secrets or are submitted to an agency by a commercial enterprise or derived from information obtained from a commercial enterprise and which, if disclosed, would cause substantial injury to the competitive position of the subject enterprise." Information submitted to NYSERDA that the proposer wishes to have treated as proprietary and confidential trade secret information should be identified and labeled "Confidential" or "Proprietary" on each page at the time of disclosure. This information should include a written request to excluding it from disclosure, including a written statement of the reasons why the information should be excepted. See Public Officers Law, Section 89(5) and the procedures set forth in 21 NYCRR Part 501. However, NYSERDA cannot guarantee the confidentiality of any information submitted.  

Omnibus Procurement Act of 1992: It is the policy of New York State to maximize opportunities for the participation of New York State business enterprises, including minority- and women-owned business enterprises, as bidders, subcontractors, and suppliers on its procurement agreements.  

Information on the availability of New York State subcontractors and suppliers is available from the following:  

Empire State Development Division for Small Business 625 Broadway Albany, NY 12207  

A directory of certified minority- and women-owned business enterprises is available from the following:  

Empire State Development   
Minority and Women's Business Development Division   
625 Broadway   
Albany, NY 12207  

State Finance Law sections 139-j and 139-k: NYSERDA is required to comply with State Finance Law sections 139-j and 139-k. These provisions contain procurement lobbying requirements which can be found on the Office of General Services’ website. Proposers are required to answer questions during proposal submission, make required certification under the State Finance Law, and disclose any Prior Findings of Non-Responsibility (this includes a disclosure statement regarding whether the proposer has been found non-responsible under section 139-j of the State Finance Law within the previous four years).  

Tax Law Section 5-a: NYSERDA is required to comply with the provisions of Tax Law Section 5-a, which requires a prospective contractor with a monetary value in excess of $\$100,000$ , prior to entering an agreement with NYSERDA, to certify to the Department of Taxation and Finance (DTF) whether the contractor, its affiliates, its subcontractors and the affiliates of its subcontractors have registered with the DTF to collect New York State and local sales and compensating use taxes. The DTF has created ST-220-TD to allow a prospective contractor to readily make such certification. Prior to contracting with NYSERDA, the prospective contractor must also certify to NYSERDA that such certification with the DTF has been filed. The DTF has created a second form, ST-220-CA, that must be completed by a prospective contractor and filed with NYSERDA, prior to contracting. Guidance for contractors can found on the DTF’s website.  

Contract Award: NYSERDA anticipates making multiple awards under this solicitation. A contract may be awarded based on initial applications without discussion, or following limited discussion, or following negotiations pertaining to the statement of work. Each offer should be submitted using the most favorable cost and technical terms. NYSERDA may request additional data or material to support applications. NYSERDA uses the sample agreement to contract successful proposals. NYSERDA may at its discretion elect to extend and/or add funds to any project funded through this solicitation. NYSERDA reserves the right to limit any negotiations to exceptions to standard terms and conditions in the Attachment A–Sample Agreement to those specifically identified in the checklist questions. Proposers should keep in mind that acceptance of all standard terms and conditions generally results in a more expedited contracting process. NYSERDA expects to notify proposers in approximately 12 weeks from the proposal due date whether the proposal has been selected to receive an award. NYSERDA may decline to contract with awardees that are delinquent with respect to any obligation under any previous or active NYSERDA agreement.  

Accessibility Requirements: NYSERDA requires contractors producing content intended to be posted to the Web to adhere to New York State’s Accessibility Policy. This includes, but is not limited to, deliverables such as documents (PDF, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, etc.), audio (.mp3, .wav, etc.), video (.mp4, .mpg, .avi, etc.), graphics (.jpg, .png, etc.), web pages (.html, .aspx, etc.), and other multimedia and streaming media content. For more information, see NYSERDA's Accessibility Requirements on the Doing Business with NYSERDA page or download NYSERDA’s Accessibility Requirements [PDF].  

Limitation: This solicitation does not commit NYSERDA to award a contract, pay any costs incurred in preparing a proposal, or to procure or contract for services or supplies. NYSERDA reserves the right to accept or reject any or all proposals received, to negotiate with all qualified sources, or to cancel in part or in its entirety the solicitation when it is in NYSERDA's best interest. NYSERDA reserves the right to reject proposals based on the nature and number of any exceptions taken to the standard terms and conditions of the sample agreement. NYSERDA reserves the right to disqualify proposers based upon the results of a background check into publicly available information and the presence of a material possibility of any reputational or legal risk in making the award.  

Disclosure Requirement: The proposer will disclose any indictment for any alleged felony or any conviction for a felony within the past five years, under the laws of the United States or any state or territory of the United States and will describe circumstances for each. When a proposer is an association, partnership, corporation, or other organization, this disclosure requirement includes the organization and its officers, partners, and directors or members of any similarly governing body. If an indictment or conviction should come to the attention of NYSERDA after the award of a contract, NYSERDA may exercise its stop-work right pending further investigation or terminate the agreement. The contractor may be subject to penalties for violation of any law which may apply in the particular circumstances. Proposers must also disclose if they have ever been debarred or suspended by any agency of the U.S. Government or the New York State Department of Labor.  

Vendor Assurance of No Conflict of Interest or Detrimental Effect -  The proposer shall disclose any existing or contemplated relationship with any other person or entity, including any known relationships with any member, shareholders of $5\%$ or more, parent, subsidiary, or affiliated firm, which would constitute an actual or potential conflict of interest or appearance of impropriety, relating to other clients/customers of the proposer or former officers and employees of NYSERDA, in connection with proposer’s rendering services as proposed. If a conflict does or might exist, please describe how your company would eliminate or prevent it. Indicate what procedures will be followed to detect, notify NYSERDA of, and resolve any such conflicts.  

The proposer must disclose whether it, or any of its members, or, to the best of its knowledge, shareholders of $5\%$ or more, parents, affiliates, or subsidiaries, have been the subject of any investigation or disciplinary action by the New York State Commission on Public Integrity or its predecessor State entities (collectively, “Commission”), and if so, a brief description must be included indicating how any matter before the Commission was resolved or whether it remains unresolved.  

Public Officers Law – For any resulting awards, the Contractor and its subcontractors shall not engage any person who is, or has been at any time, in the employ of the State to perform services in violation of the provisions of the New York Public Officers Law, other laws applicable to the service of State employees, and the rules, regulations, opinions, guidelines or policies promulgated or issued by the New York State Joint Commission on Public Ethics, or its predecessors (collectively, the “Ethics Requirements”).  Proposers are reminded of the following Public Officers Law provision: contractors, consultants, vendors, and subcontractors may hire former NYSERDA employees. However, as a general rule and in accordance with New York Public Officers Law, former employees of NYSERDA may neither appear nor practice before NYSERDA, nor receive compensation for services rendered on a matter before NYSERDA, for a period of two years following their separation from NYSERDA service. In addition, former NYSERDA employees are subject to a “lifetime bar” from appearing before any state agency or authority or receiving compensation for services regarding any transaction in which they personally participated, or which was under their active consideration during their tenure with NYSERDA.  

Any awardee will be required to certify that all of its employees, as well as employees of any subcontractor, whose subcontract is valued at $\$100,000$ or more who are former employees of the State and who are assigned to perform services under the resulting contract, shall be assigned in accordance with all Ethics Requirements. During the term of any agreement, no person who is employed by the contractor or its subcontractors and who is disqualified from providing services under the contract pursuant to any Ethics Requirements may share in any net revenues of the contractor or its subcontractors derived from the contract. NYSERDA may request that contractors provide it with whatever information the State deems appropriate about each such person’s engagement, work cooperatively with the State to solicit advice from the New York State Joint Commission on Public Ethics, and, if deemed appropriate by the State, instruct any such person to seek the opinion of the New York State Joint Commission on Public Ethics. NYSERDA shall have the right to withdraw or withhold approval of any subcontractor if utilizing such subcontractor for any work performed would be in conflict with any of the Ethics Requirements. NYSERDA shall have the right to terminate any contract at any time if any work performed is in conflict with any of the Ethics Requirements.  

Due Diligence – NYSERDA, at its discretion, may conduct broad due diligence to validate any or all elements of an application and to assess applicants’ prospects of success, including gathering information to assess a proposal relative to any of the topics listed in evaluation criteria, whether or not such topic is explicitly addressed in a proposal. NYSERDA may conduct due diligence on some or all proposals based on NYSERDA’s current guidelines at the time of a review. NYSERDA staff may follow up with proposers to request additional information or clarification regarding applicant’s proposal, including questions regarding applicant’s business prospects and resources, whether or not those questions are specifically related to the elements of the proposal. Additionally, customized due diligence may be conducted by internal or external staff or contractors based on questions on any proposal raised by NYSERDA staff and/or the Scoring Committee. Due diligence may include (but is not limited to): interviews of independent references and background checks of team members; assessment of prior business experience of any team member associated with a proposal; research on intellectual property claims; customer and partner reference checks; market research on the applicants’ target market and any other related or possibly competitive technology or market area; research to validate any assumptions on current or future revenues, costs, capital needs, and financing prospects for proposers’ business, including similar (or unrelated) technologies, processes, or competitive solutions; or any other research that could reasonably inform the evaluation of a proposal, or the prospects for commercial success of the proposers’ business (whether directly related to, or unrelated to the specific elements in a proposal). Due diligence may include discussions with proposers’ former and current business partners, employees, investors, customers, and competitors. Due diligence may be conducted by NYSERDA personnel or contractors including members of the scoring committee, before, during, or after a scoring process, and prior to finalization of a contract award, any information gleaned in diligence may be used to score or re-score a proposal or apply a program policy factor.  

EO 16 Protocols – Pursuant to Executive Order No. 16 issued on March 17, 2022, all vendors responding to bids or contracting with New York State must certify, using the form provided as part of this solicitation, their status with regard to conducting business operations in Russia, and that any such business operations in Russia conducted on behalf of the vendor are determined to be permitted under any of the allowable exemptions. The term vendor is intended to encompass bidders prior to contract award, contractors who have received a contract award, contract assignees, or contractors for whom an extension to an existing contract is being pursued.  Exemption decisions are in NYSERDA’s sole discretion and are final decisions.  NYSERDA reserves the right to solicit additional materials or information regarding the responses or materials provided by a vendor.  

Pursuant to Executive Order No. 16, all vendors will be vetted to ensure that they are not on the federal sanctions list at https://sanctionssearch.ofac.treas.gov/.  There is no waiver or exemption process for vendors appearing on the federal sanctions list.  

The Executive Order remains in effect while sanctions imposed by the federal government are in effect. Accordingly, vendors who may be excluded from award because of current business operations in Russia are nevertheless encouraged to respond to solicitations to preserve their contracting opportunities in case sanctions are lifted during a solicitation, or after award in the case of some solicitations.  

# II. Attachments:  

Attachment A–Sample Umbrella Agreement  