# Home  Renewable Energy  Solar  Community Solar Community Solar  

# What is Community Solar?  

A community solar project is a large solar farm shared by more than one household. Its primary purpose is to allow members of a community the opportunity to share the benefits of solar power even if they cannot install solar panels on their roof or property. Program participants benefit from the electricity generated by the community solar farm, which costs less than the price they would ordinarily pay for electricity.  

Through community solar programs, renters, homeowners, municipalities, and non-profits can participate in clean energy projects and save money on their monthly electricity bill.  

# Community Solar Marketplace  

Please visit OER’s Community Solar Marketplace website to learn more about projects currently available for subscribers, community stories about your neighbors who are going solar through community solar, and metrics associated with community solar in Rhode Island. This online resource links potential community solar customers with existing community solar projects and to provide education with our Frequently Asked Questions  page.  

This website was made possibly by US Department of Energy funding through a State Energy Strategies grant in partnership with the Clean Energy States Alliance. OER has developed the Marketplace to realize greater access to community solar in Rhode Island for all customers.  

For more information please visit the Renewable Energy Fund webpage.  

# Contact Us  

Abigail Hasenfus | Renewable Energy Programs Manager | abigail.hasenfus@energy.ri.gov  