# COMMERCIAL INCENTIVES  

COMMERCIAL CONDUIT  

# EARN UP TO A \$2,000 INCENTIVE  

for new commercial construction conduit for a future public charging station  

# APPLICATION  

$\$15$ /foot of conduit installed (minimum of $\$500$ , maximum of $\$2,000$ ) for new commercial construction for the installation of conduit to be used for the future installation of an electric vehicle public charging station.  

# Guidelines  

Available to commercial customers of Nebraska Public Power District and its wholesale utility partners.   
Commercial conduit installation must take place at a new construction or commercial/workplace site.   
To obtain the incentive, all steps on the application must be completed and submitted to utility along with cost details and verification of installation.   
This incentive is for the installation of conduit for use with conductor for minimum ampacity of the following charger loads per the National Electrical Code (NEC) and/or the running of appropriately sized conduit per NEC from the load center to a future EV public charging station. Load Requirements (exact requirements may vary): — Level 2: Single phase, 240 volts, 32 amps per port. — Level 3 (DCFC): 480V AC, 3-phase, 80A, 60 Hz.   
Program is subject to Terms and Conditions outlined on the application.   
Visit with your electrical utility to discuss your conduit and charging needs and pick up an application form.   
Submit payment request after purchase and installation.  

# Additional Information  

Brochure  

# COMMERCIAL CHARGER  

# EARN AN INCENTIVE  

for the installation of an electric vehicle public charging station.  

# APPLICATION  

Direct Current Fast Chargers (DCFC) must be preapproved before equipment is ordered.   
Charging stations must be available for public use 24/7.   
DCFC: Limit of one per business location (50 kW minimum rated charging capacity).   
Level 2 charging stations: Up to four per business location.   
Incentive is not available for federally funded charging stations (NEVI, CFI, etc.)  

# For Non-Profit Organizations  

$90\%$ reimbursement for the installation of an EV charging station (maximum of $\$1,000$ of charger capacity). Grants, discounts, etc., are deducted to determine customer’s cost. Incentive is based on the lower of two qualified bids.  

# For All Other Businesses  

$\$200/k W$ of charging station capacity. Incentive is capped at $50\%$ of charging station cost.  

# Guidelines  

Available to commercial customers of Nebraska Public Power Distric and its wholesale utility customers.   
Only available to non-residential accounts.   
Public charging station installation must be at a commercial/workplace site.   
To obtain the incentive, all steps on the application must be completed and submitted to utility along with the two bid proposals and verification of installation.   
This incentive is for the installation of equipment for minimum ampacity of the following charger loads per the National Electrical Code (NEC) and/or the running of appropriately sized conduit per NEC from the load center to a future EV charging station.Load Requirements (exact requirements may vary): — Level 2: single phase, 240 volts, 32 amps per port. — Level 3 (DCFC): 480V AC, 3-phase, 80A, 60 Hz.   
Program is subject to Terms and Conditions outlined on the application.   
Visit with your electrical utility to discuss your charging needs and pick up an application form which includes the approval section.  

Submit final payment request after purchase and installation.  

# Additional Information  

Brochure Target Criteria  