# RESIDENTIAL INCENTIVES  

HOME CHARGING STATION  

# EARN UP TO A \$500 INCENTIVE  

when installing a residential electric vehicle charging station  

# APPLICATION  

A $50\%$ incentive of the cost of a home charging station with a maximum of $\$500$ for the installation of a residential vehicle charging station.  

# Guidelines  

Charging station installation location must be at a single or multifamily residence.   
To obtain the incentive, an incentive application must be completed along with the associated proof of purchase and installation of the charging station.   
Incentive applies only to a home charging station.   
Program is subject to Terms and Conditions outlined on the application.  

Visit with your electrical utility to discuss your EV and charging needs and pick up an application form.  

# Additional Information  

Brochure  

# PRE-WIRING  

# EARN A \$400 INCENTIVE  

on wiring for the installation of a 240- volt, 32-amp (minimum) circuit  

# APPLICATION  

$\$400$ incentive for new construction for in-home pre-wiring for the installation of a 240-volt, 32-amp (minimum) circuit. For use of electric heater, camper, welder, or electric vehicle charging station, etc.   
— OR —   
$100\%$ of the cost (maximum of $\$600$ ) for existing structures for inhome pre-wiring for the installation of a 240-volt, 32-amp (minimum) circuit. For use of electric heater, camper, welder, or electric vehicle charging station, etc.  

# Guidelines  

Pre-wiring incentive applies to single or multi-family residence prewiring with NM cable for 32-amps (minimum) continuous load per the National Electrical Code (NEC) or the running of appropriate size conduit per NEC from the load center to a NEMA receptacle   
Program is subject to the Terms and Conditions as outlined on the application.   
Visit with your electrical utility to discuss your EV and charging needs and pick up an application form.  

# Additional Information  

Brochure  