# Warning!  

It seems that JavaScript is not working in your browser. It could be because it is not supported, or that JavaScript is intentionally disabled. Some of the features on CT.gov will not function properly with out javascript enabled.  

# Statewide Shared Clean Energy Facility (sCEF) Program  

The statewide SCEF Program was developed pursuant to Section 7(a)(1)(C) of Public Act 18-50, An Act Concerning Connecticut’s Energy Future $7$ , codified as Section 16- 244z(a)(1)(C) of the General Statutes of Connecticut. The statewide SCEF Program seeks the deployment of new or incremental Class I renewable generation projects for a 20- year term. Eligible projects are chosen through a competitive bidding procurement process each year, for a total of 8 years. The first procurement occurred in 2020.  

With the passage of Public Act 22-14 $7、17$ , the SCEF Program now allows projects ranging in size from 100 to 5,000 kilowatts (AC), starting in the Year 4 Procurement. Earlie SCEF procurements only allowed projects up to 4,000 kilowatts. Further, Public Act 22-14 increased the yearly program capacity from 25 megawatts to 50 megawatts.  

Most recently, Public Act 24-31 extended the SCEF Program from 6 years to 8 years.  

# For Customers  

If you are an Eversource or United Illuminating customer in Connecticut, you may be eligible for a SCEF subscription, which provides an on-bill credit to lower your energy bill Please see the relevant webpage to determine your eligibility and apply:  

Eversource: How to become a SCEF Subscriber (https://www.eversource.com/content/residential/save-money-energy/clean-energy-options/scef-program/how-tobecome-a-scef-subscriber)  

United Illuminating: How to become a SCEF Subscriber (https://www.uinet.com/smartenergy/innovation/scef-shared-clean-energy-facility-program)  

# For Developers  

# Year 6 Procurement  

By Final Decision $12$ dated December11, 2024, in Docket No. 24-08-04, Annual Review of Statewide Shared Clean Energy Facility Program Requirements - Year 6, the Public Utilities Regulatory Authority (PURA) approved, with revisions, the Program Manual, the Year 5 Request for Proposals (Year 6 RFP), Appendix A: Subscriber Terms and Conditions, and Appendix B: Submittal to the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) for the Year 6 procurement cycle of the statewide SCEF Program (Appendix B).  

# Year 6 Bid Preferences  

The Year 6 Procurement maintains a 20 percent bid preference for all Class I resources sited on brownfields or landfills, for ranking purposes only, and establishes a 40 percent bid preference for solar canopies, also for ranking purposes only. Bidders cannot receive both bid preferences. If a Bidder's project is eligible for both bid preferences, the Bidder will solely get the 40 percent bid preference for solar canopies.  

# Year 6 RFP and Submission of Project Bid Filing to EDC  

Eversource Energy and The United Illuminating Company (together, the EDCs) jointly issued the Year 6 RFP in January 2025, for the submission of Project Bid filings. To download and view the Year 6 RFP program documents, please visit Eversource's or UI's SCEF webpages:  

Eversource SCEF webpage (https://www.eversource.com/content/ct-c/residential/save-money-energy/clean-energy-options/scef-program/scef-programinformation)   
UI SCEF webpage (https://www.uinet.com/suppliers_and_partners/power_procurement/rfp-for-scef)  

Bidders must submit their Project Bid filing with the relevant EDC on or before the Bid Forms due date established by the EDCs in the Year 6 RFP. Bidders must also email a copy of their entire Project Bid filing to DEEP at DEEP.EnergyBureau@ct.gov (mailto:DEEP.EnergyBureau@ct.gov?subject=SCEF%20Year%205) on or before the same date.  

# Bidder's Appendix B Submittal to DEEP  

Concurrent with a Project Bid filing with the relevant EDC in response to the Year 6 RFP, a Bidder must also submit the following information and affidavits to DEEP on or before the Bid Forms due date established by the EDCs in the Year 6 RFP. A Bidder's responses to these items are collectively known as the Bidder's Appendix B Submitta  

Responses to all questions outlined in the Year 6 Appendix B;   
Attachment 1: an affidavit attesting to the Bidder's control of the Project Site by the Bidder;   
Attachment 2: an affidavit attesting to the Bidder's control of the Project Site by the owner of the project site (required only if the Bidder is not the owner of the Project Site);   
Attachment 3: an affidavit attesting to the veracity of statements made to DEEP in Appendix B and all attachments;   
Attachment 4: the completed Self-Certification Form for proposed projects that violate the slope requirements, if applicable;   
Attachment 5: an Applicant Compliance Information form; and,   
A copy of the notification email the Bidder has received from the relevant EDC confirming that the Project Bid has been submitted successfully.  

e revised Appendix B, affidavit forms, and the Self-Certification Form are available in PDF and Word formats, at the links below  

Appendix B, Affidavits, and Self-Certification Form (https://portal.ct.gov/-/media/deep/energy/scef/deep-year-5-appendix-b_pdf.pdf? rev=8298923cd7bb4a5fb2b55cc10098a3cf&hash=9E93E46E8F56FC0306C398CEF399E0AD) (PDF version)  

Appendix B, Affidavits, and Self-Certification Form (https://portal.ct.gov/-/media/deep/energy/scef/deep-year-5-appendix-b_word.docx? rev=52dfee76f0674b6d99d5913df95721eb&hash=EF16C78EF6865553B2FAD2E8E682415E) (Word version)  

Bidders must file their Appendix B Submittal with DEEP at DEEP.EnergyBureau@ct.gov (mailto:DEEP.EnergyBureau@ct.gov?subject=SCEF%20Year%205) on or before the Bid Forms due date established by the EDCs in the Year 6 RFP. Bidders must also email a copy of their entire Appendix B Submittal to the relevant EDC at SCEF@Eversource.com (mailto:SCEF@Eversource.com) or SCEF@uinet.com (mailto:SCEF@uinet.com) on or before the same date.  

NOTE:  DEEP presently oversees a separate SCEF program on a pilot basis. Details about the SCEF pilot program and the three projects selected to participate in that program are available on DEEP's webpage for the Shared Clean Energy Facility Pilot Program (https://portal.ct.gov/deep/energy/shared-clean-energy-facilities/shared-cleanenergy-facilities-pilot-program).  

Content last updated January 2025  