# COMMERCIAL CHARGING STATION APPLICATION  

Contact Chad Pinkelman at 402-710-1410; or email cjpinke@nppd.com with any questions.  

• Direct Current Fast Chargers (DCFC) must be preapproved before equipment is ordered.   
• All charging stations must be available for public use 24/7.   
• Limit of one DCFC per business location $50\mathsf{k W}$ minimum rated charging capacity).   
• Up to four Level 2 charging stations per business location.  

# ⃣  FOR NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS:  

• $90\%$ reimbursement for the installation of an EV charging station (maximum $\$1,000$ of charger capacity).   
• Grants, discounts, etc., are deducted to determine customer’s cost.   
• Incentive is based on the lower of two qualified bids.  

# ⃣  FOR ALL OTHER BUSINESSES:  

• $\$200/k W$ of charging station capacity (incentive is capped at $50\%$ of charging station cost).  

1. Customer: Electric Utility: Contact Name: Phone #: Account #: Installation Address: Email:  

2. Level 2 (up to 4 per location):  

Model: Unit Cost: \$ Capacity (kW): Installation cost: $\$1$ Model: Unit Cost: $\$1$ Capacity (kW): Installation cost: $\$1$ Model: Unit Cost: $\$1$ Capacity (kW): Installation cost: $\$1$ Model: Unit Cost: $\$1$ Capacity (kW): Installation cost: $\$1$  

3. Level 3 (DCFC): submit this application for approval to Chad Pinkelman prior to ordering equipment Model: Unit Cost: $\$1$ Capacity (kW): Installation cost: $\$1$  

4. By signing below, customer agrees to the Terms and Conditions. Customer: Print Name Signature Date  

5. For Utility Use Only: Grants/or discounts Incentive amount: \$ _ Approved by: Print Name Signature Date  

# 6. Application is returned to Customer. Customer may now proceed with installation.  

7. Installed By: Company Name: Phone #: Print Name Signature Date  

8. Submit this application after equipment has been installed, along with invoices, proof of non-profit and a photo of installation to your electric utility for incentive payment.  

# TERMS & CONDITIONS  

PROOF OF INSTALLATION:  Documentation must include proof of equipment installation via electrical contractor signature of work completion, along with a photo of the installation.  This photo can be submitted via mail or email.  If this proof is not received within 90 days of the expiration date on the application, the application will be voided.  

FOR NON-PROFIT ENTITIES: Customer must provide proof of non-profit status. Customer will provide two bids for the costs for the equipment and installation for EV Charging stations.  

INCENTIVE OFFER: Details of this program, including incentive levels, are subject to change without notice. The electric utility reserves the right to limit incentives. Not available for equipment that qualifies under other EnergyWise℠ incentive programs. All incentives are subject to specific program guidelines. This incentive is only available to customers of Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD) and customers of its wholesale utilities.  

ELIGIBLE EQUIPMENT: This incentive is for up to 1 DCFC and 4 level 2 EV chargers and the equipment needed for use with conductor for minimum ampacity of the following load per NEC (National Electrical Code) and/or the running of appropriate size conduit per NEC, from the load center to a future EV charging station.   Example Load Requirements: Level 2: single phase, 240 volts, 80 amps per port. Level 3 (DCFC): 480V AC, 3-phase, 80A, 60 Hz. Exact requirements may vary.  

QUALIFYING COSTS: Includes costs of equipment procurement and data plan.  Adjustments due to changes in actuals costs will no be made. NPPD will provide documentation of our financial commitment to the customer after review of applications and estimates.  

ISSUING INCENTIVES: The eligible equipment must be installed before an incentive is issued. Falsifying any information may lead to cancellation of this and future incentive applications, a claim by the electric utility for the return of any incentive, and/or referral for prosecution. Please allow 45 days for delivery of incentives. Submitting an application with incomplete or missing information may delay processing of the incentive.  

APPROVAL & VERIFICATION: The electric utility reserves the right to verify sales transactions and projects prior to and afte installation. NPPD reserves the right to stop or adjust the qualifications and/or program/incentive at any point.  

DATA SHARING: Customer agrees to sharing the charging data they are obtaining with NPPD. including but not limited to: annua reporting regarding number of events, duration, downtime, etc.  

AX LIABILITY: Neither the electric utility nor NPPD are responsible for any tax liability imposed on the customer as a result of th V charging station equipment.  

ENDORSEMENT: Neither the electric utility nor NPPD endorses any particular manufacturers, products, or system designs i promoting this program.  

DISPOSAL: The customer/contractor is responsible for the proper disposal and/or recycling of any waste generated as a result of thi project.  

SAFETY & BUILDING CODES: The customer/contractor agrees that each measure complies with all federal, state, and local safety building, and environmental codes. All products must be UL-listed and installed per manufacturer's instructions.  

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES: Neither the electric utility nor NPPD warrant the performance of any equipment either expressly or implicitly. Contact the supplier or contractor for details regarding equipment warranties.  

EXPIRATION: Customer has 12 months after approval to install the DCFC.  

ECONOMIC FEASIBILTY: Customer has considered the economics of the service and operation of EV charging. How much the EV charging stations will be used and a sample electric bill from the electric utility.  

LOCATION FEASIBILITY: Customer has reviewed the EV Charging Stations target criteria document from the EnergyWise℠ GoE website. These considerations are used for approval.  