March 4, 2022  

# Community Solar Program - Docket No. UM 1930 Release of Remaining Capacity in the Initial Tier  

UM 1930 Stakeholders,  

The Community Solar Program Administrator (PA) is prepared to begin processing project precertification applications for the remainder of the initial Program capacity tier, also referred to as the “Second Offering,” on March 14, 2022. Staff are providing this information to assist Project Managers (PM) in submitting and revising their project applications to the Community Solar Program (CSP or Program) website.  

On March 14, the PA will:  

 Allocate Second Offering Capacity to projects currently on the Program waitlist.   
 Place currently-waitlisted projects that are allocated capacity into suspended status on the Program website to allow PMs to make revisions. Begin accepting new project pre-certification applications.  

In the week prior to March 14, the PA will also delete all pre-certification applications currently in draft status on the program website.  

# Allocation of Program Capacity to Waitlisted Projects  

On March 14, the PA will allocate general market Program capacity to currently waitlisted projects in Portland General Electric (PGE) and PacifiCorp (PAC) service areas according to their order on the waitlist. Based on the volume of currently waitlisted projects, in PAC service area all Second Offering capacity available to non-carve out projects will be fully allocated by waitlisted projects. In PGE service area, after allocating waitlisted capacity, there will still be capacity remaining for new, non-carve out applications. In both Utility service areas, there will be Second Offering capacity for carve out-eligible projects.  

Capacity will be allocated first to projects currently on the program waitlist and any remaining capacity will be made available to new project applications on a first-come-first-served basis. All PMs with waitlisted projects have already received information about their place in the waitlist, and may reach out to the PA with any questions.  

Additionally, a small amount of the Interim Program capacity tier, also referred to as “Interim Offering,” remains available in Idaho Power Company (IPC) service area. The Interim Offering Program rules will apply to any new projects submitted for the IPC service area.  

# Program Notice  

# Revisions Period  

After allocating Program capacity to currently waitlisted projects, the PA will immediately place these projects in “suspended” status in the Program platform. This will allow PMs to review and edit their project information, provide new information required in the Second Offering, and resubmit their precertification application. PMs should reach out to the PA with any questions about this process.  

In line with Section 4.5.5 of the CSP Program Implementation Manual, PMs must resubmit their project applications within fifteen business days (i.e. before April 4, 2022). Projects may be rejected and lose their place in the application queue if they are not resubmitted within fifteen business days. The PA will review pre-certification applications once resubmitted.  

# Deletion of Projects Currently in Draft Status  

To ensure a smooth transition on the Program platform to include the Second Offering, projects currently in draft status (i.e., incomplete applications that have never been submitted for precertification) will be deleted before opening new Program capacity. PMs that wish to retain any information in current draft applications are encouraged to contact the PA.  

# Timeline of Processing Certification Requests in the Second Offering  

The revised Program rules for the Second Offering require additional Program platform development and utility coordination to be completed prior to projects becoming operational. This work will be rolled out in phases to accommodate upcoming project milestones and must be completed before any Certification requests can be processed for projects that are allocated capacity in the Second Offering. Projects that are currently pre-certified in the Interim Offering are not affected by this and may request Certification and begin operations at any time.  

The PA anticipates that the Program platform development may be completed in Q4 of 2022. Once completed the PA may begin processing Certification applications for Second Offering projects, around Q4 of 2022. The PA will advise PMs of any updates to this timeline.  

# Staff and Program Contacts  

If you would like to join the service list for UM 1930, email your request to   
puc.hearings@puc.oregon.gov. If you have questions about information provided in this notice please contact the CSP Program Administrator at administrator@oregoncsp.org.  