# Public Utility Commission  

OARD Home  

Search Current Rules  

# Chapter 860  

Search Filings  

Division 88 COMMUNITY SOLAR PROGRAM RULES  

Access the Oregon Bulletin  

860-088-0005  

Access the Annual Compilation  

Scope and Applicability of Community Solar Program Rules  

FAQ  

(1) OAR 860-088-0005 through 860-088-0190 establish rules governing implementation of a community solar program under Oregon Laws 2016, chapter 28, section 22.  

Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login  

(2) Upon request or its own motion, the Commission may waive any of the Division 088 rules for good cause shown. A request for waiver must be made in writing, unless otherwise allowed by the Commission.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0010  

Definitions  

For purposes of this Division:  

(1) “Community Solar Program” is the program for the procurement of electricity by electric companies from community solar projects.  

(2) “Low-Income Facilitator” is the entity responsible for the duties set forth in OAR 860-088-0030.  

(3) “Electric company” has the meaning given that term in ORS 757.600.  

(4) “Low-income residential customer” means a retail residential customer of an electric company whose annual income is at or below the threshold set by Commission order for the Community Solar Program.  

(5) “Nameplate capacity” means the maximum rated output of a solar photovoltaic energy system, measured by the rated output of system inverter(s) at 50 degrees Celsius and adjusted for any transformer step-up losses.  

(6) “Owner” means a retail customer of an electric company who has an ownership interest in a project, such as direct ownership of one or more solar panels or shared ownership of the infrastructure of the project. Owner is defined at the site address level.  

(7) “Participant” means either a subscriber or owner.  

(8) “Program Administrator” means a third-party directed by the Commission to administer the Community Solar Program.  

(9) “Program Implementation Manual” means the set of guidelines and requirements for implementing the Community Solar Program adopted by the Commission.  

(10) “Project” means a community solar project as defined in Oregon Laws 2016, chapter 28, section 22(1)(a).  

(11) “Project Manager” has the meaning given that term in Oregon Laws 2016, chapter 28, section 22(1)(d).  

(12) “Retail customer” means a customer who is a direct customer of the electric company and is the end user of electricity for specific purposes, such as heating, lighting, or operating equipment.  

(13) “Service territory” means the geographic area within which an electric company provides electricity to retail customers.  

(14) “Solar photovoltaic energy system” has the meaning given that term in Oregon Laws 2016, chapter 28, section 22(1) (e).  

(15) “Subscriber” means a retail customer of an electric company who enters into a contractual agreement of 10 or more years for part of a project that results in bill credits being applied to that customer’s electricity bill. Subscriber is defined at the site address level.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22   
Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22   
History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

860-088-0020  

Program Administrator  

(1) The Commission will use a competitive bidding process to select a Program Administrator to administer the Community Solar Program.  

(2) The duties of the Program Administrator include:  

(a) Developing jointly with Commission Staff a Program Implementation Manual;  

(b) Developing a budget and reporting actual expenditures and carryover to the Commission;  

(c) Managing the performance of the Low-Income Facilitator and coordinating with the Low-Income Facilitator to meet any low-income capacity requirements;  

(d) Registering Project Managers;  

(e) Reviewing applications for project pre-certification and certification;  

(f) Confirming participant eligibility in the Community Solar Program;  

(g) Facilitating the exchange of customer electricity account information between electric companies and Project Managers;  

(h) Establishing and maintaining a publicly-available queue of pre-certified projects in a manner that protects commercially sensitive or competitive information;  

(i) Coordinating participants’ monthly bill crediting and conveying bill credit information to electric companies and Project Managers;  

(j) Providing to electric companies participant ownership or subscription payment information obtained from Project Managers;  

(k) Receiving from electric companies monies collected from participants, allocating monies, and maintaining monthly reports of receipts and allocations to submit to the Commission upon request;  

(l) Monitoring Project Managers’ compliance with the standard of conduct set forth in the Program Implementation Manual and notifying the Commission of any compliance deficiency;  

(m) Facilitating data exchange among electric companies, Project Managers, and the Commission;  

(n) Managing data related to the Community Solar Program as set forth in the Program Implementation Manual, including implementing best practices for data security and privacy; and  

(o) Performing other duties assigned by the Commission or set forth in the Program Implementation Manual.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0030  

Low-Income Facilitator  

(1) The Commission will use a competitive bidding process to select a Low-Income Facilitator. The Commission may allow the Program Administrator to fulfill the duties of this position or subcontract for this position.  

(2) The Low-Income Facilitator reports to the Program Administrator. The duties of the Low-Income Facilitator include:  

(a) Serving as a liaison among low-income residential customers and affiliated organizations and Project Managers to help meet any low-income capacity requirements;  

(b) Developing guidelines, protocols, and materials for engaging low-income residential customers and affiliated organizations;  

(c) Upon request, providing information to assist the Commission’s policy development related to low-income capacity requirements;  

(d) Implementing best practices for data security and privacy; and (e) Other duties assigned by the Program Administrator, the Commission, or set forth in the Program Implementation Manual.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

860-088-0040  

Project Pre-Certification  

(1) The Project Manager must submit an application for project pre-certification to the Program Administrator.  

(2) An application for pre-certification must include:  

(a) Documentation of Project Manager registration;  

(b) A detailed description of the project including location, nameplate capacity, performance characteristics, and plan for project end of useful life;  

(c) Permitting requirements and status of compliance;  

(d) All documentation relevant to the interconnection process as provided in OAR chapter 860, division 82;  

(e) Participant acquisition approach;  

(f) Proposed marketing materials;  

(g) Proposed forms and standard contracts for ownership interests and subscriptions;  

(h) Plan for meeting applicable low-income capacity requirements;  

(i) Payment of any applicable application fees; and Other information or documentation as set forth in the Program Implementation Manua (3) The Program Administrator reviews applications for pre-certification in the order received to determine compliance with applicable requirements. The Program Administrator must notify the Project Manager of any deficiencies and allow reasonable time for remedy.  

(4) Once a project is pre-certified, the Project Manager may execute contracts with participants for ownership or subscription interests.  

(5) A project remains pre-certified for a period of 18 months, unless granted an extension. If not certified within this period, the project forfeits its place in the queue of pre-certified projects. The Project Manager must submit a new application for pre-certification to be considered for participation in the Community Solar Program.  

(6) The Project Manager must seek approval of any modification to a pre certified project relating to project elements set forth in the Program Implementation Manual. An amendment will not extend the 18-month period. The Program Implementation Manual will prescribe the form and manner of amendment submission and approval.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28, sec. 22   
Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28, sec. 22   
History:   
PUC 6-2024, amend filed 10/30/2024, effective 10/30/2024   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

860-088-0050  

Project Certification  

(1) The Project Manager of a pre-certified project must submit an application for project certification to the Program Administrator.  

(2) The Commission will certify a project that demonstrates:  

(a) Ownership of, or subscription to, at least 50 percent of the project nameplate capacity;  

(b) Ownership or subscription by at least five different participants;  

(c) Compliance with applicable low-income capacity requirements;  

(d) Commission approval of modification to pre-certified project as required in OAR 860 088-0040(6), if applicable; and (e) Satisfaction of any other condition identified by the Commission at the time of pre certification.  

(3) The Program Administrator reviews applications for certification in the order received for compliance with applicable requirements and presents applications to the Commission for certification. The Program Administrator must notify the Project Manager of any deficiencies and allow reasonable time for remedy.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0060  

Program Capacity Restrictions  

(1) “Program capacity tier” means the amount of total program capacity eligible for projects participating in an electric company’s service territory.  

(2) The initial program capacity tier for each electric company is equal to 2.5 percent of the electric company’s 2016 system peak.  

(3) The Commission may establish successive program capacity tiers.  

(a) In determining whether to set a successive tier, the Commission may consider all aspects of the Community Solar Program.  

(b) A successive program capacity tier may not be established until any low-income capacity requirements are successfully energized and the corresponding projects are serving qualifying participants.  

(4) Once a project is pre-certified, the nameplate capacity of the project is counted towards the program capacity tier of the electric company in whose service territory the project is located. The nameplate capacity of the project will be removed from the electric company’s program capacity tier in the event that the Project Manager notifies the Program Administrator that the project will be removed from the Community Solar Program or the project is otherwise not certified within the time period allowed in OAR 860-088-0040(5).  

(5) A project may not be pre-certified if the addition of the project will exceed the electric company’s current program capacity tier. The Program Administrator will create a queue of applications for pre-certification received after the program capacity tier has been met. If a successive program capacity tier is established, applications in the queue will be processed in the order received.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0070  

Project Siting and Requirements (1) To participate in the Community Solar Program, a project must:  

(a) Be located within the Oregon service territory of an electric company; and (b) Have a nameplate capacity of three megawatts or less.  

(2) “Co-location” means two or more projects that exhibit characteristics of a single development, such as common ownership structure, an umbrella sale arrangement, revenue-sharing arrangements, or common debt or equity financing. Projects are not considered co located solely because the same person provides tax equity financing for the projects. Co location of projects is not permitted within a five-mile radius unless:  

(a) The aggregate nameplate capacity of the co-located projects is three megawatts or less; or (b) The co-located projects are all sited within a single municipality or urban area as defined in the Program Implementation Manual.  

(3) Multiple solar photovoltaic energy systems that are aggregated into one project must all be located within a single electric company’s service territory.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0080  

Customer and Low-Income Capacity Requirements  

(1) At least 50 percent of the nameplate capacity of each project must be allocated exclusively for ownership or subscription by residential and small commercial customers. This is inclusive of the low-income capacity requirement in section (2) of this rule.  

(2) At least 10 percent of the total generating capacity of the Community Solar Program must be allocated exclusively for use by low-income residential customers. The respective bill credits associated with this allocation must be linked to discrete low-income residential customers.  

(3) A Project Manager must submit a plan with the application for project pre-certification describing how the project will satisfy applicable low-income capacity requirements and outline how the Project Manager will work with the LowIncome Facilitator on outreach efforts.  

(4) The Commission may establish by order a funding mechanism to facilitate participation of low-income residential customers.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0090  

Participant Eligibility and Limitations  

(1) Subject to the conditions in this rule, a retail electricity customer of an electric company may acquire an ownership interest in, or subscribe to, one or more projects that are located in the service territory of the electric company serving the retail electricity customer.  

(2) A participant’s ownership interest in, or subscription to, a project may not exceed the retail electricity customer’s average annual consumption of electricity in the service territory in which the project is located.  

(3) A single participant’s ownership interest in, or subscription to, a project may not exceed a 40 percent interest in the project.  

(4) With respect to projects certified during the initial program capacity tiers:  

(a) A participant, and its affiliates as defined in the Program Implementation Manual, may own or subscribe up to a total of four megawatts across multiple projects; and  

(b) A participant may own or subscribe up to a total of two megawatts across multiple projects.  

(5) For any successive program capacity tier established by the Commission, participation limitations will be set forth in the order adopting the successive tier.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

860-088-0100  

Consumer Protection Provisions  

(1) All contracts between Project Managers and participants must contain provisions to protect customers, including terms and conditions regarding:  

(a) Contract portability and transferability;  

(b) Transparency of costs, risks, and benefits;  

(c) Cancellation penalties;  

(d) Explanation of one-time and on-going fees;  

(e) Early termination;  

(f) Explanation of concept of renewable energy credits;  

(g) Data privacy and security;  

(h) Responsibilities of the Program Administrator, electric company, and Commission;  

(i) Notifications regarding project status and performance; and $(\mathrm{j})$ Other requirements set forth in the Program Implementation Manual.  

(2) Prior to executing a contract with a participant, the Project Manager must provide the participant a Commissionapproved checklist that discloses the charges, terms and conditions of service, the process for dispute resolution, and other items set forth in the Program Implementation Manual.  

(3) Marketing materials must contain a Commission-approved disclaimer explaining that participation in the Community Solar Program is for the purpose of offsetting participants’ energy usage with electricity generated by certified projects.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0110  

Dispute Resolution  

(1) Any participant complaints related to the Community Solar Program received by an electric company, the LowIncome Facilitator, the Program Administrator, or the Commission are to be referred initially to the applicable Project Manager for resolution.  

(a) The Project Manager must investigate each complaint and provide a written response to the complainant.  

(b) If the Project Manager is unable to resolve the complaint, the complainant may request that the complaint be escalated to the Program Administrator. If the Program Administrator is unable to resolve the complaint, the Program Administrator must notify the complainant of the right to contact the Commission’s Consumer Services Section to request assistance in resolving the dispute or to obtain information about filing a formal complaint under ORS 756.500.  

(c) The Project Manager must compile and submit to the Program Administrator an annual report of complaints received over the past 12-month period. This report must include a description of each complaint, the parties to the complaint, and the resolution of the complaint.  

(2) Project Managers seeking to resolve disputes related to the Community Solar Program may use the contested case process, OAR 860-001-0000, et seq., to resolve disputes between:  

(a) Multiple project managers;  

(b) A Project Manager and an electric company; or (c) A Project Manager and PUC Staff, Program Administrator, or Low-Income Facilitator.  

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 757.386   
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 757.386   
History:   
PUC 2-2023, minor correction filed 05/10/2023, effective 05/10/2023   
PUC 3-2022, amend filed 03/09/2022, effective 03/09/2022   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0120  

Obligations of Electric Companies  

(1) Upon request from the Program Administrator, an electric company must provide customer electricity account information to the Program Administrator for the purpose of appropriately sizing an ownership interest or subscription in a project. Customer information may not be disclosed to the Program Administrator without consent from the customer.  

(2) An electric company must credit participants of a certified project with bill credits as provided in OAR 860-088- 0170. The application of the credit may appear on the participants’ account in a subsequent billing period due to the time required to calculate the credit and transfer information between entities. The electric company will apply the credit to the participant’s account within 30 days of receiving the bill credit information from the Program Administrator.  

(3) Each electric company, in conjunction with the Program Administrator, must develop and obtain Commission approval of an on-bill payment model that allows for multiple ownership and subscription configurations to assess and remit on a participant’s electricity bill:  

(a) Ownership or subscription fees owed by the participant to the Project Manager. An electric company may only remit fees to a Project Manager once a project has been certified;  

(b) Fees owed by the participant to fund the Program Administrator and Low-Income Facilitator; and (c) Additional fees collectible from participants imposed by Commission order.  

(4) An electric company must obtain Commission approval of any applicable tariffs required by these rules, including the rate recovery of any expenditure for project development and administration if the electric company is acting as Project Manager.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0130  

Obligations of Project Managers  

(1) The Project Manager must register with the Program Administrator.  

(2) The Project Manager must comply with the standard of conduct established by Commission order. Upon notice of a potential compliance deficiency, the Project Manager will be afforded the opportunity to meet with Commission Staff and the Program Administrator to work toward a resolution. If the compliance deficiency is not resolved, the  

Commission may direct the Program Administrator to withhold payments to the Project Manager and take other action as permitted by rule, statute, or contract.  

(3) The Project Manager must provide any information the Program Administrator or Staff reasonably determines is necessary to investigate issues and make decisions regarding Project Manager participation and status in the program-- -e.g., to ascertain compliance with the requirements for pre-certification and certification in OAR 860-088-0040 and 860-088-0050 and the standard of conduct set forth in the Program Implementation Manual. Such request for information shall not be unduly burdensome.  

(4) For the collection of ownership or subscription fees owed to the Project Manager, the Project Manager must use the Commission-approved on-bill payment method described in OAR 860-088-0120(3).  

(a) The Project Manager may use a modified on-bill payment method if agreed to by the Program Administrator and the electric company.  

(b) The Project Manager may request approval of an alternative fee collection method for ownership or subscription configurations incompatible with the available on-bill payment methods.  

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 757.386   
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 757.386   
History:   
PUC 3-2023, minor correction filed 05/10/2023, effective 05/10/2023   
PUC 3-2022, amend filed 03/09/2022, effective 03/09/2022   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0140  

Sale and Purchase of Unsold and Unsubscribed Generation (1) Upon project certification, the project’s remaining unsold and unsubscribed generation is eligible for sale subject to the following requirements:  

(a) Upon request, an electric company must enter into a 20-year power purchase agreement with a pre-certified project to purchase the project’s unsold and unsubscribed generation on an “as available” basis subject to the requirements of the Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act (PURPA) and ORS 758.505, et. seq.;  

(b) If the electric company is the Project Manager, the electric company may seek Commission approval to recover from all ratepayers the “as available” rate for the project’s unsold and unsubscribed generation; and  

(c) Renewable energy certificates associated with generation sold under section (1)(a) of this rule at the “as available” rate will not transfer to the electric company unless otherwise agreed by the Project Manager and electric company.  

(2) The value of any project generation that is not sold to or subscribed by participants, sold to an electric company under a power purchase agreement, or sold on another basis must be donated to the electric company whose service territory encompasses the project at the “as available” rate and used by the electric company to assist low-income residential customers’ participation in the Community Solar Program.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0150  

Renewable Portfolio Standards and Renewable Energy Certificates (1) Megawatt hours of electricity associated with participant ownership interests or subscriptions will be deducted from the amount of electricity sold by the electric company to retail electricity consumers for purposes of calculating the electric company’s renewable portfolio standard under ORS 469A.052.  

(2) All claims to environmental, economic, and social benefits associated with megawatt hours of electricity associated with participant ownership interests or subscriptions, including any renewable energy certificates, must remain with the participants.  

(3) Registration with the Western Renewable Energy Generation Information System (WREGIS) is required. For any project that is 360 kilowatts in aggregate size or less, the Project Manager may request with its application for project pre-certification a waiver from the requirement to register with WREGIS.  

(4) If a project is registered with WREGIS, the Project Manager must:  

(a) Maintain sub-accounts associated with the renewable energy certificates owned by participants and retire those renewable energy certificates annually on behalf of participants;  

(b) Report annually to the Commission the retirement of renewable energy certificates on behalf of participants; and (c) Report annually to the Commission the sale of any renewable energy certificates generated by the project sold as of a result of a contract for the unsold or unsubscribed portion of project generation. The report must include adequate  

information for the Commission to verify that any renewable energy certificates owned by participants were not sold.  

(5) If a project is granted a waiver from the requirement to register with WREGIS, the Project Manger mus (a) Disclose in the contracting documents with participants that the project will not create and retire renewable energy certificates on their behalf; and  

(b) Provide an attestation at the time of project pre-certification that all renewable energy attributes associated with megawatt hours of electricity associated with participant ownership interests or subscriptions are being claimed solely by project participants.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0160  

Community Solar Program Funding  

(1) Start-up costs incurred during the development or modification of the Community Solar Program are recoverable in electric company rates. These costs, which must be reviewed and approved by Commission order, include:  

(a) Costs associated with the Program Administrator and Low-Income Facilitator; and (b) Each electric company’s prudently-incurred start-up costs associated with implementing the Community Solar Program. These costs include, but are not limited to, costs associated with customer account information transfer and on-bill crediting and payment, but exclude any costs associated with the electric company developing a project.  

(2) On-going costs of the Community Solar Program, including costs associated with the Program Administrator and the Low-Income Facilitator, are collected from participants.  

(a) Each project is responsible for its appropriate share of on-going costs, as allocated in the Program Implementation Manual or otherwise determined by Commission order.  

(b) If the Program Administrator or Low-Income Facilitator receives funds in excess of actual costs, the excess funds may be accrued and applied to offset future costs.  

(c) If the Program Administrator or Low-Income Facilitator receives inadequate funds to continue performing its duties, the Commission may suspend further pre-certification of projects until the funding shortfall is resolved.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0170  

Bill Crediting  

(1) For purposes of this rule:  

(a) “Bill credit rate” is an amount used to calculate a participant’s monthly bill credit. Unless otherwise determined by Commission order, the bill credit rate for a project will be based on the resource value of solar applicable to that project at the time of pre-certification and will apply for a term no less than the term of any power purchase agreement entered into pursuant to OAR 860-088-0140(1)(a).  

(b) “Carry-over generation” means the kilowatt-hours of a participant’s proportional share of project generation in a monthly billing period that exceeds the participant’s energy usage during that monthly billing period.  

(c) “Differential credit” means the difference between the retail rate multiplied by the participant’s eligible generation, and the bill credit rate multiplied by the payable generation. (Retail rate x participant’s eligible generation) – (bill credit rate x participant’s eligible generation).  

(d) “Eligible generation” means the kilowatt-hours of project generation for which a participant may receive a monthly bill credit. In a monthly billing period, this eligible generation is the portion of the participant’s proportional share of project generation that is equal to or less than the participant’s energy usage during the period in which the generation occurred.  

(e) “Energy usage” means a participant’s volumetric energy consumption as reflected on the participant’s electricity bill.  

(f) “Excess generation” means the portion of a participant’s proportional share of project generation that exceeds the participant’s energy usage in a monthly billing period.  

(2) A participant’s monthly bill credit is calculated by:  

(a) Multiplying the participant’s eligible generation for the monthly billing period by the bill credit rate; and  

(b) Adjusting this amount to account for:  

(A) Eligible carry-over generation, which is the portion of the participant’s accrued carry-over generation that when added to participant’s eligible generation does not exceed the participant’s energy usage for the monthly billing period; and  

(B) Accrued differential credit, which is value that accrues to the participant when the bill credit rate exceeds the volumetric retail rate.  

(3) The monthly bill credit provided to a participant may not exceed the participant’s total volumetric charges for the monthly billing period. The portion of a participant’s differential credit that exceeds the participant’s total monthly volumetric charges may be accrued and used to adjust the participant’s monthly bill credit in future billing periods.  

(4) A participant’s excess generation at the end of the annual billing cycle must be donated to the low-income programs of the electric company serving the participant. Unless the electric company and the Project Manager agree otherwise, the annual billing cycle begins on the first day of the April billing month and ends at the close of the March billing month. If the electric company and the Project Manager agree to an alternative billing cycle, the electric company must inform the Program Administrator in writing of the alternative billing cycle within 30 calendar days of the participant’s execution of a contract with the Project Manager.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0180  

Community Solar Program Evaluation  

(1) Commission Staff will periodically conduct a public workshop with the Program Administrator and Low-Income Facilitator to solicit comment from interested persons on the status of the Community Solar Program.  

(2) Commission Staff will periodically present a report to the Commission based on input from these public workshops and other relevant information, that:  

(a) Describes the status of implementation of the Community Solar Program;  

(b) Evaluates use of additional mechanisms to incent participation and project development; and (c) Considers, at a minimum, adjustments or modifications to:  

(A) Program capacity restrictions, (B) Project siting and size requirements, (C) Low-income capacity requirements, (D) Participation restrictions, (E) Data reporting and management practices, (F) Consumer protection provisions, and  

(G) The responsibilities of the Program Administrator and Low-Income Facilitator.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

# 860-088-0190  

Program Implementation Manual  

(1) A Program Implementation Manual will be developed jointly by the Program Administrator and Commission Staff through a public process and adopted by Commission order.  

(2) The Program Implementation Manual will describe and inform the roles of the Program Administrator, the LowIncome Facilitator, and Commission Staff in implementing the Community Solar Program.  

(3) The Commission may, upon request or on its own motion and after notice and opportunity for public comment, amend the Program Implementation Manual upon a finding of good cause.  

Statutory/Other Authority: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 Statutes/Other Implemented: OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 History:   
PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17  

860-088-0200 Revocation of Pre-Certification or Certification  

Upon review of a written complaint, upon recommendation by the Program Administrator, or on its own motion, the Commission may, after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing, consistent with ORS 183.310(2)(a) and ORS 183.415, revoke the pre-certification or certification of a Project and/or registration of a Project Manager for reasons including the following:  

(1) Material misrepresentations in its application for pre-certification or certification, project amendments, or in any report of material changes in the facts upon which the pre-certification or certification was based;  

(2) Material misrepresentations in solicitations, agreements, or in the administration of participant contrac (3) Dishonesty, fraud, or deceit that benefits the Project Manager or disadvantages customers;  

(4) Failure to take required corrective action under the disciplinary probation process as outlined in the Program Implementation Manual.  

Statutory/Other Authority: ORS 757.386   
Statutes/Other Implemented: ORS 757.386   
History:   
PUC 4-2023, minor correction filed 05/10/2023, effective 05/10/2023   
PUC 3-2022, adopt filed 03/09/2022, effective 03/09/2022  