# Commonwealth of Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES  

SOLAR MASSACHUSETTS RENEWABLE TARGET PROGRAM (225 CMR 20.00)  

GUIDELINE  

# Statement of Qualification Reservation Period Guideline  

Effective Date: September 12, 2018   
Revised: July 14, 2020   
Revised: October 8, 2020   
Revised: June 4, 2021   
Revised: September 22, 2021   
Revised: February 21, 2023   
Revised: June 23, 2023   
Revised: October 31, 2024  

1) Purpose  

This Guideline provides Solar Tariff Generation Units with information relating to the processes and procedures that they must follow to both obtain and retain a Statement of Qualification pursuant to 225 CMR 20.06. All capitalized terms are defined in 225 CMR 20.00.  

2) Initial Reservation Period for Project Implementation a) Reservation Periods and Expiration Dates  

Any Solar Tariff Generation Unit with a capacity less than 1 MW AC that obtains a preliminary Statement of Qualification will be granted an initial Reservation Period of 12 months from the issuance date of the preliminary Statement of Qualification, with the exception of Solar Tariff Generation Units that were selected under the initial competitive procurement under 225 CMR 20.07(3), which will have their 12–month initial Reservation Period begin as of the SMART Program Effective Date. Any Solar Tariff Generation Unit with a capacity greater than or equal to 1 MW AC that obtains a preliminary Statement of Qualification will be granted an initial Reservation Period of 24 months from the issuance date of the preliminary Statement of Qualification. Unless the applicant submits an incentive claim for the Solar Tariff Generation Unit within its initial Reservation Period or the Solar Tariff Generation Unit receives an extension permitted under Section 6 of this Guideline, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s preliminary Statement of Qualification will expire and will be revoked by the Department.  

Following construction and authorization to interconnect, an applicant must submit an incentive claim to the Solar Program Administrator. If the Solar Tariff Generation Unit meets all eligibility requirements pursuant to 225 CMR 20.00, the Department shall issue a final Statement of Qualification and the Solar Tariff Generation Unit may begin its SMART Tariff term upon its Incentive Payment Effective Date. Additional guidance on how each Distribution Company determines the Incentive Payment Effective Date is provided in the SMART Incentive Payment Effective Dates document.  

b) Reservation of Eversource Capacity Blocks  

After the Publication Date, pursuant to 225 CMR 20.05(3)(e), the Capacity Blocks of Eversource East and Eversource West shall be merged into a single set of Capacity Blocks beginning with the ninth Capacity Block. The total available capacity in the merged Capacity Blocks is equal to the sum of the capacity previously available to each distinct service territory. Although the Capacity Blocks are combined to reflect a single service territory, Solar Tariff Generation Units in Eversource East and Eversource West will continue to receive their respective Base Compensation Rates, as required by 225 CMR 20.05(3)(e), and established in the Guideline on Capacity Blocks, Base Compensation Rates, and Compensation Rate Adders.  

i. Until the initial eight Capacity Blocks are filled, large Solar Tariff Generation Units located in Eversource East service territory may continue to receive Capacity Block allocation beginning with next available Capacity Block. Once these initial Capacity Blocks are filled, Solar Tariff Generation Units may receive Capacity Block allocation beginning with the next available Capacity Block of the expanded program.  

Example: If large projects in Eversource West fill Capacity Blocks 9 and 10 by the time Eversource East’s initial eight Capacity Blocks are filled, then large projects in Eversource East would begin allocation to Capacity Block 11.  

ii. Large Solar Tariff Generation Units located in Eversource West service territory may receive Capacity Block allocation beginning with the $9^{\mathrm{th}}$ Capacity Block.  

c) Reservation of Qualified Public Entity Adder Solar Tariff Generation Units  

Any Solar Tariff Generation Unit that was awarded a contract by a Municipality or other Government Entity and obtains a preliminary Statement of Qualification with the Public Entity Adder, will be granted an initial Reservation Period of 18 months from the issuance date of the preliminary Statement of Qualification. Unless the applicant submits an incentive claim for the Solar Tariff Generation Unit within its initial Reservation Period or the Solar Tariff Generation Unit receives an extension permitted under Section 6 of this Guideline, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s preliminary Statement of Qualification will expire and be revoked by the Department.  

Following construction and authorization to interconnect, an applicant must submit an incentive claim to the Solar Program Administrator. If the Solar Tariff Generation Unit meets all eligibility requirements pursuant to 225 CMR 20.00, the Department shall issue a final Statement of Qualification and the Solar Tariff Generation Unit may begin its SMART Tariff term upon its Incentive Payment Effective Date. Additional guidance on how each Distribution Company determines the Incentive Payment Effective Date is provided in the SMART Incentive Payment Effective Dates document.  

3) Determination of Application Period and Queue Order  

a) Existing Applications  

At the Department’s discretion, applications that are submitted and are deemed complete prior to the Publication Date will proceed pursuant to requirements established in 225 CMR 20.00 prior to the Publication Date. The order in which prospective Solar Tariff Generation Units shall be allocated a Statement of Qualification, for additional capacity added to the SMART Program on the Publication Date shall be determined by the calendar date and time on which a complete Statement of Qualification Application is submitted to the Solar Program Administrator.  

Solar Tariff Generation Units that are on a Distribution Company’s Waiting List shall maintain their queue position on the waitlist so long as their applications remain complete and meet all applicable requirements to apply for a Statement of Qualification. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit on the waitlist shall follow the requirements established in 225 CMR 20.00 prior to the Publication Date. Applications will be processed and a preliminary Statement of Qualification may be issued for Solar Tariff Generation Units applying for available capacity in a Distribution Company Capacity Block under the initial 1,600 MW of the SMART Program. As additional capacity becomes available, preliminary Statement of Qualifications will be issued based on the queue order of the waitlist.  

Applications that are in process of being submitted or applications that are incomplete as of the Publication Date will be placed on hold. These applications can resume the submission process upon the date which Statement of Qualification Applications for the additional capacity will be accepted, as stated in subsection b below. Such applications will be treated as received after the Publication Date and will be subject to post-Publication Date requirements.  

# b) New Applications after Publication Date  

The Department shall establish the date upon which Statement of Qualification Applications will be accepted. The application will become available to prospective Solar Tariff Generation Units as of 12:00 PM Eastern Time on the date established by the Department. Notwithstanding the process outlined in section 3(a), all applications submitted on that day, and the following four Business Days, will be considered to have been submitted at the same time. Applications will be further ordered in the following manner:  

i. Applications for Solar Tariff Generation Units with a capacity of $25\mathrm{kW}$ AC or less will be ordered according to the date of the fully executed contract between the Primary Installer and the Customer of Record.   
ii. Applications for Solar Tariff Generation Units with a capacity of more than $25\mathrm{kW}$ AC will be ordered according to the execution date on the Generation Unit’s Interconnection Service Agreement.1   
iii. In the instance that two Solar Tariff Generation Units have the same contract or Interconnection Service Agreement execution date, Solar Tariff Generation Units will be ordered according to a random selection performed by either the Department or the Solar Program Administrator.  

4) Complete Statement of Qualification Application  

A complete Statement of Qualification Application for a prospective Solar Tariff Generation Unit shall provide all documents as required by 225 CMR 20.06, complete all required application fields on the Statement of Qualification Application, and submit any application fee required by the Solar Program Administrator.  

5) Cure Processes  

# a) Upon Initial Application Review  

If the Statement of Qualification Application is deemed incomplete upon the initial review by the Solar Program Administrator, the Solar Program Administrator or Department shall notify the Solar Tariff Generation Unit of any deficiencies and provide the applicant with ten Business Days to cure them. If a complete, corrected application is not resubmitted by the deadline, the application will be rejected.  

# b) Upon Initial Claim Review  

If the Statement of Qualification Application’s incentive claim is deemed incomplete or incorrect upon the initial review by the Solar Program Administrator, the Solar Program Administrator or the Department shall notify the Solar Tariff Generation Unit of any deficiencies and the applicant must complete the corrections within a timeframe established by the Solar Program Administrator. The Solar Program Administrator may establish a schedule for required corrections and publish the schedule to its website: www.masmartsolar.com. If a complete, corrected claim is not resubmitted by the applicable deadline, the claim will be denied and the preliminary Statement of Qualification will be revoked.  

# 6) Extended Reservation Periods  

The Department may grant extensions to a Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s Reservation Period under the following circumstances:  

# a) Extended Reservation Period for a Fee  

A Solar Tariff Generation Unit may seek an extended Reservation Period of up to twelve months by paying a fee to the Solar Program Administrator. The fee shall be $\$25$ per kW AC, shall be held by the Solar Program Administrator in escrow, and shall be refundable upon submission of final claim if the Solar Tariff Generation Unit achieves mechanical completion within the extended Reservation Period. If the Solar Tariff Generation Unit does not achieve mechanical completion within the extended Reservation Period, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s Statement of Qualification shall expire and the fee will be used to offset the administrative costs incurred by the Solar Program Administrator. The Solar Tariff Generation Unit may also seek an extended reservation of its qualified Compensation Rate Adder.  

If the Solar Tariff Generation Unit achieves mechanical completion within this extended Reservation Period for a fee, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s Reservation Period may be extended indefinitely by requesting an extended Reservation Period pending authorization to interconnect, as prescribed in Section 6(c) of this Guideline.  

# b) Extended Reservation Period for Legal Challenges  

A Solar Tariff Generation Unit may seek an extended Reservation Period of up to six months if the Solar Tariff Generation Unit submits a certification that a governmental permit or approval of the Solar Tariff Generation Unit was subject to a legal challenge initiated by a party other than the Owner during its Reservation Period.  

To be considered for this extension, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit must submit its request to DOER by following the instructions on DOER’s website.  

c) Extended Reservation Period Pending Authorization to Interconnect  

If a Solar Tariff Generation Unit can demonstrate to the Department’s satisfaction that the Solar Tariff Generation Unit has achieved mechanical completion and that interconnection depends only upon receipt of notice of authorization to interconnect from the Distribution Company, its Reservation Period shall be extended indefinitely until such notice is received or denied.  

i. For the purposes of satisfying the requirements of an extension under Section 6(c) of this Guideline, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit may provide a Certificate of Completion, signed by the local wiring inspector.   
ii. If the Solar Tariff Generation Unit has applied for the Energy Storage Adder through a Storage Addendum and seeks to extend its Energy Storage Adder Reservation Period under this section, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit must demonstrate that the Energy Storage System is mechanically complete and pending receipt of notice of authorization to interconnect from the Distribution Company. To satisfy this requirement, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit may provide a Certificate of Completion for the Energy Storage System, signed by the local wiring inspector.   
iii. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit with an Energy Storage Adder included in its preliminary Statement of Qualification may seek an extension under this section for both the Solar Tariff Generation Unit and the Energy Storage System, retaining the same Reservation Period for both the Solar Tariff Generation Unit and the Energy Storage System, so long as the applicant can demonstrate that both the Solar Tariff Generation Unit and Energy Storage System are mechanically complete. Alternatively, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit may separately apply for an extension under this section for either the Solar Tariff Generation Unit or the Energy Storage System by de-coupling the Energy Storage Adder from the preliminary Statement of Qualification as described in Section 9(c)iii of this Guideline.   
iv. At the time of this extension request, Community Shared and Low Income Community Shared Solar Tariff Generation Units must provide the Department with an update on the amount of AC capacity that has been assigned or allocated to off-takers.  

To be considered for this extension, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit must submit its request via the SMART Program application portal.  

# d) Extended Reservation Period Pending Affected System Operator Study  

If a Solar Tariff Generation Unit can demonstrate to the Department’s satisfaction that it has received notification from the Distribution Company that the Solar Tariff Generation Unit is included in an Affected System Operator (ASO) study, and as a result, is subject to extended study and delays, its initial Reservation Period shall be extended six months.  If, after such initial six–month period, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit can demonstrate to the Department’s satisfaction that it remains subject to further study, its Reservation Period may be extended further, for an amount of time to be determined by the Department, informed by the most up to date timeline provided by the Distribution Company to the Solar Tariff Generation Unit.  

For the purposes of satisfying the requirements of an extension under Section 6(d) of this Guideline, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit may provide written notice from the Distribution Company, or some other evidence to the Department’s satisfaction, alerting the Solar Tariff Generation Unit of its inclusion in an Affected System Operator Study, and a timeline clearly detailing the anticipated delays.  

Example: An example of further study would be continued study in the ASO, or further study in a detailed study by the Distribution Company.  

To be considered for the first six months of this extension, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit must submit its request via the SMART Program application portal. After the initial six–month period, to be considered for further extension, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit must submit its request to DOER by following the instructions on DOER’s website.  

# e) Extended Reservation Period for Good Cause  

If a Solar Tariff Generation Unit has already received an extension under Section 6(a), the Extended Reservation Period for a Fee, of this Guideline and can demonstrate to the Department’s satisfaction that good cause warrants a further extension not provided for under Sections 6(b) or (c) or (d) of this Guideline, its Reservation Period may be extended further, for an amount of time to be determined by the Department, informed by third-party documentation of the delays.  

To assist the timely review of these requests, the Department provides the following guidance:  

Equipment Delays: Applicants should provide documentation from a third party that demonstrates delay in equipment delivery.  Documentation could include but is not limited to a letter from an Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contractor detailing the type of equipment that is delayed and how long it is delayed.   
Labor Issues: Applicants should provide documentation to verify impacts COVID-19 is causing on the labor crew. Documentation could include but is not limited to emails from installation supervisors informing management of the crew’s exposure to COVID-19. The request should clearly detail the number of weeks caused by the delay, number of employees infected, and the duration of the impact. Personal information, such as names of employee’s infected, should not be included.   
Site Access: Applicants should provide documentation to verify site access has been restricted by property owners. Documentation could include but is not limited to written communication from the property owner to the applicant detailing the site access limitations.   
Detailed Timeline: Applicants should provide a detailed timeline which aligns with the   
documentation of the delays. The timeline should include the anticipated dates for mechanical completion and authorization to interconnect.  

Applicants should include in their request the specific amount of time for the extension and any documentation that aligns with this duration.  

The Department may review other extenuating circumstances, though similar documentation from third parties that demonstrate the impact is required .  

To be considered for this extension, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit must submit its request to DOER by following the instructions on DOER’s website and include documentation demonstrating a fee has been paid under Section 6(a).2  

f) Extended Reservation Period for a Fee: Storage Addendum  

Solar Tariff Generation Units that have already received a preliminary or final Statement of Qualification may request to add an Energy Storage System. The Department shall then issue a Storage Addendum to the project, which establishes a separate Reservation Period of 12 months from the Addendum’s issuance date for the installation of the Energy Storage System.  

An Energy Storage System that has received a Storage Addendum may seek an extended Reservation Period of up to six months by paying a fee to the Solar Program Administrator. The fee shall be $\$25$ per kW AC, shall be held by the Solar Program Administrator in escrow, and shall be refundable upon submission of final claim if the Energy Storage System achieves mechanical completion within the extended Reservation Period. If the Energy Storage System does not achieve mechanical completion within the extended Reservation Period, the Storage Addendum shall expire, and the fee will be used to offset the administrative costs incurred by the Solar Program Administrator.  

g)  Extended Reservation Period for Good Cause: Storage Addendum If a Solar Tariff Generation Unit has already received an extension under Section 6(f), the Extended Reservation Period for a Fee: Storage Addendum, of this Guideline and can demonstrate to the Department’s satisfaction that good cause warrants a further extension not provided for under Sections 6(b) or (c) or (d) of this Guideline, its Reservation Period may be extended further, for an amount of time to be determined by the Department, informed by third-party documentation of the delays.  

To be considered for this extension, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit must submit its request to DOER by following the instructions on DOER’s website and include documentation demonstrating a fee has been paid under Section 6(f).3  

h) Extended Reservation Period for Capital Investment Projects  

If a Solar Tariff Generation Unit can demonstrate to the Department’s satisfaction that it is participating in a Capital Investment Project approved by the Department of Public Utilities, its initial Reservation Period shall be extended twelve months. If, after such initial twelve-month period and after receiving an Extended Reservation Period for a Fee under Section 6(a) of this Guideline, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit can demonstrate to the Department’s satisfaction that it remains subject to further delays due to the CIPs, its Reservation Period may be extended further, for an amount of time to be determined by the Department.  

For the purposes of satisfying the requirements of an extension under Section 6(h) of this Guideline, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit may provide written notice from the Distribution Company, documentation from the filing with the Department of Public Utilities, or some other evidence to the Department’s satisfaction.  

To be considered for the first twelve months of this extension, a Solar Tariff Generation Unit must submit its request via email to the SMART inbox at DOER.SMART $@$ mass.gov.  

# 7) Waiting Lists  

If there is insufficient capacity in a Distribution Company’s final Capacity Block for a Statement of Qualification to be granted to a Solar Tariff Generation Unit, the Department shall add the Solar Tariff Generation Unit to the applicable Distribution Company’s Capacity Block waiting list. Priority on a waiting list shall be based on the date that the Department receives a complete Statement of Qualification Application. As capacity under a Distribution Company’s last Capacity Block becomes available (e.g., through a Solar Tariff Generation Unit losing its Statement of Qualification or reducing the capacity reserved), the Department shall offer such available capacity to Solar Tariff Generation Units on the applicable waiting list, in order of priority as follows:  

i. If the capacity is equal to or greater than the amount sought in a Statement of Qualification Application, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit may accept the offer. If the Solar Tariff Generation Unit does not accept the Statement of Qualification offered or does not respond within 15 Business Days of the offer, the Department shall deem the Statement of Qualification Application withdrawn, and the capacity will be offered to the next Solar Tariff Generation Unit on a waiting list.   
ii. If the amount of capacity offered to a Solar Tariff Generation Unit is less than the amount sought in a Statement of Qualification Application, the Generation Unit may: (1) accept the offer of a reduced Capacity Block allocation and receive a Statement of Qualification for the reduced Capacity amount, or (2) accept the offer, hold the Capacity Block allocation, and remain on the Waiting List until additional Capacity becomes available. As additional capacity becomes available under the Distribution Company Capacity Block, it will be assigned to the same Solar Tariff Generation Unit until 100 percent of the capacity listed in its Statement of Qualification Application can qualify under that Distribution Company’s Capacity Block.  

As specified in 225 CMR 20.05(2), revisions to the SMART Program pursuant to 225 CMR 20.07(5) that require amendments to the SMART Tariffs shall take effect upon review and approval of revised SMART Tariffs by the Department of Public Utilities. Accordingly, for the period of time between the date upon which the Department establishes that Statement of Qualification Applications will be accepted per Section 3 of this Guideline, and the approval of any changes to the SMART Tariff requiring review and approval by Department of Public Utilities, the following shall apply:  

i. Only Solar Tariff Generation Units that meet all eligibility requirements specified in 225 CMR 20.06(1) may submit a Statement of Qualification Application. Solar Tariff Generation Units seeking the exception to the Land Use provisions of 20.05(5)(e)1.b., as detailed in the Guideline Regarding Land Use, Siting and Project Segmentation, may not submit their Statement of Qualification Application until it has received its Interconnection Service Agreement.   
ii. Applications for additional Capacity Blocks added by the expansion of total SMART Program capacity will be evaluated and may be placed on a waiting list.   
iii. For Distribution Companies whose last Capacity Block (i.e., Block 8) is fully reserved as of the Publication Date, Solar Tariff Generation Units that are on the waiting list shall be offered capacity in the last Capacity Block as capacity becomes available (e.g., through a Solar Tariff Generation Unit losing its Statement of Qualification or reducing the capacity reserved).  

Following the Department of Public Utilities review and approval of any changes to the SMART Tariff, any Solar Tariff Generation Unit on the waiting list will be allocated capacity to the next Capacity Block that is open and in order of priority stated above in this section.  

Reservation Periods established under Section 2 of this Guideline shall not begin until the Solar Tariff Generation Unit has accepted the offer of a reduced Capacity Block allocation and received a Statement of Qualification or received a Statement of Qualification for 100 percent of the capacity listed in its Statement of Qualification Application.  

8) Expiration of Reservation Period  

If a Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s Reservation Period expires, the Department shall revoke its Statement of Qualification. Any capacity that the Solar Tariff Generation Unit had previously reserved under a Capacity Block will be removed from that Capacity Block and assigned to the current Capacity Block in which new Solar Tariff Generation Units are reserving capacity.  

9) Adder Eligibility and Qualification a) Location Based, Solar Tracking Adders, and Pollinator Adder i. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit that is applying for a Location Based Adder, Solar Tracking Adder, as defined in 225 CMR 20.07(4)(a) and (d), respectively, must provide proof of adder eligibility at the time it submits its Statement of Qualification Application, or upon submitting a change request to apply for the adder, and must verify that it meets all adder eligibility criteria upon submitting its final claim.  

(1) The following documentation will be required for a Solar Tariff Generation Unit to qualify for Location Based, and Solar Tracking Adders:  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Location Based and Solar Tracking Adders</td><td>Required Documentation - Application for Adder</td><td>Required Documentation - Interconnection and Tariff Enrollment</td></tr><tr><td>Building Mounted</td><td>Site plan</td><td>Authorization to interconnect</td></tr><tr><td>Floating Solar</td><td>Pre-determination letter, as issued by the Department</td><td>Authorization to interconnect</td></tr><tr><td>Brownfield</td><td>Pre-determination letter, as issued by the Department</td><td>Authorization to interconnect</td></tr><tr><td>Landfill</td><td>Post-closure use permit, as issued by the Department of Environmental Protection</td><td>Authorization to interconnect</td></tr><tr><td>Canopy</td><td>Site plan</td><td>Authorization to interconnect</td></tr><tr><td>Agricultural</td><td>Pre-determination letter, as issued by the Department</td><td>Authorization to interconnect</td></tr><tr><td>Solar Tracker</td><td>Site Plan</td><td>Authorization to interconnect</td></tr></table></body></html>  

ii. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit that is applying for a Pollinator Adder as defined in $225\mathrm{CMR}$ 20.07(4)(e), may qualify for an adder during the following times: upon application for Statement of Qualification; any time during the Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s Reservation Period; or after its Commercial Operation Date, provided it is still within its compensation rate term, pursuant to 225 CMR 20.07(1). The Solar Tariff Generation Unit must provide proof of adder eligibility at the time it applies for the adder.  

(1) A Solar Tariff Generation Unit that qualifies for a pollinator adder after its Commercial Operation Date may only receive the Compensation Rate Adder(s) for the remainder of its compensation rate term, provided it can demonstrate continued compliance with the eligibility criteria.  

(2) In order to maintain eligibility for the Pollinator Adder, a letter of certification must be submitted annually to the Department no later than March $31^{\mathrm{st}}$ . If a letter of annual certification is not submitted by March 31st, the Department may revoke qualification for the Pollinator Adder.  

iii. Solar Tariff Generation Units with an Agricultural, Solar Tracker, and/or Pollinator Adder may add and/or remove its Compensation Rate Adder one time during its tariff term.4  

# b) Off-taker Based Adders  

A Solar Tariff Generation Unit that is applying for an Off-Taker Based Adder as defined in 225 CMR 20.07(4)(b) may qualify for an adder at any time during a Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s Reservation Period, or after its Commercial Operation Date, provided it is still within its compensation rate term, pursuant to 225 CMR 20.07(1). A Solar Tariff Generation Unit must demonstrate continued compliance with all requirements of 225 CMR 20.00 after its Commercial Operation Date in order to retain its eligibility for an adder.  

i. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit that qualifies for an Off-taker Based Adder after its Commercial Operation Date may only receive the Compensation Rate Adder(s) for the remainder of its compensation rate term, provided it can demonstrate continued compliance with the eligibility criteria. The value of the Compensation Rate Adder for such facilities will be the applicable Compensation Rate Adder at the time the Solar Tariff Generation Unit qualifies for the Off-taker Based Adder.   
ii. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit may add and/or remove an Off-taker Based Adder one time during its tariff term.   
iii. The following documentation will be required to qualify a Solar Tariff Generation Unit for Offtaker Based Adders. The following does not apply to Community Shared Solar or Low Income Community Shared Solar Tariff Generation Units that are enrolled through a municipal aggregation program, or program administered by a Distribution Company, permitted by 20.06(1)(f)(4).  Further guidance on these is available in the Guideline Regarding Alternative Programs for Community Shared Solar and Low Income Community Shared Solar Generation Units.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Off-taker Based Adder</td><td>Required Documentation - Statement of Qualification Application</td><td>Required Documentation - Interconnection and Tariff Enrollment</td></tr><tr><td>Community Shared Solar</td><td>N/A</td><td>Schedule Z/ Credit Allocation Form/ Off-taker list; Customer Disclosure Forms; Authorization to interconnect</td></tr><tr><td>LowIncome Property</td><td>Pre-determination letter, as issued by the Department (optional)</td><td>Schedule Z/ Credit Allocation Form/ Off-taker list; Off-taker contract; Authorization to interconnect</td></tr><tr><td>Low Income Community</td><td>N/A</td><td>Schedule Z/ Credit Allocation Form/ Off-taker list; Customer Disclosure Forms; Evidence of</td></tr></table></body></html>

4  An Agricultural, Solar Tracker, and/or Pollinator Adder applies to the entire footprint of the STGU.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Shared Solar</td><td></td><td>net savings to Customers of Record; Evidence of low income eligibility for off-takers; Authorization tointerconnect</td></tr><tr><td>Public Entity</td><td>Proof land is publicly owned or evidence that the STGU is located in the municipality that has received the off-take agreement/Off-taker contract; Award letter (if applicable); operation and maintenance agreement (if applicable); evidence of interconnection application submitted and accepted by the 5</td><td>Schedule Z/ Credit Allocation Form/ Off-taker list; ISA; site control; non-ministerial permits; authorization to interconnect</td></tr></table></body></html>  

iv. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit seeking a Community Shared Solar adder that has been issued a preliminary Statement of Qualification prior to the Publication Date must inform the Department within 60 days of the Publication Date if it elects to remove their application for the adder and retain its queue position. If it does not, or if it is a Solar Tariff Generation Unit seeking a Community Shared Solar adder that has received its preliminary Statement of Qualification after the Publication Date, the STGU must demonstrate it meets the definition to qualify for the adder in question as of its Incentive Payment Effective Date. If the Solar Tariff Generation Unit fails to do so, it will be moved to the end of the last open Capacity Block for the distribution company in which it is qualified.  If there is a wait list for the Capacity Blocks for the distribution company in which it is qualified, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit will be moved to the last Capacity Block but will not be placed on the wait list.  

v. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit seeking a Community Shared Solar adder or Low Income Community Shared Solar adder must allocate at least 90 percent of or its credits or electricity by the Incentive Payment Effective Date. To remain in compliance for the adder, an applicant must provide to the Department updated customer disclosure forms for any new Customers of Record and an updated Schedule Z, credit allocation form, or off-taker list annually by no later than December $31^{\mathrm{st}}$ , demonstrating the project continues to allocate at least 90 percent of its credits or electricity to eligible off--takers.  If the applicant does not submit the documents by December $31^{\mathrm{st}}$ or the information supplied does not meet the eligibility requirements, the Department may revoke qualification for the Community Shared Solar adder or the Low Income Community Shared Solar adder.  

vi. The public entity adder is required to support municipalities and government entities that are interested in pursuing solar for their communities. Applicants seeking the public entity adder, whether the project is located on publicly owned land or privately owned land, must be able to demonstrate that all eligibility requirements are met.  This is demonstrated through solicitations for a power purchase agreement by the municipal or government entity, solicitations for construction of a solar facility to be owned by the municipal or government entity, or an agreement originated by the municipal or government entity to operate and maintain the facility. Evidence or demonstration of benefits to the municipality or government entity may also be considered.  Additionally, only Public Entity Solar Tariff Generation Units that are “awarded a contract” qualify to apply for a Statement of Qualification, pursuant to 225 CMR 20.06(1)(l). Public Entity Solar Tariff Generation Units that enter into an agreement to operate and maintain the facility are required to meet all eligibility requirements pursuant to 225 CMR 20.06(1)(c) to qualify to apply for the SMART Program.  

c) Energy Storage Adder  

As specified in 225 CMR 20.05(5)(k), Solar Tariff Generation Units greater than $500\mathrm{kW}$ applying to the SMART Program on or after the Publication Date must include an Energy Storage System that complies with eligibility requirements of 225 CMR 20.06(1)(e), this Guideline, the Guideline on Energy Storage, and the Guideline Regarding Metering of Solar and Energy Storage Systems.  

A Solar Tariff Generation Unit that is applying for an Energy Storage Adder as defined in 225 CMR 20.07(4)(c), may qualify for the adder during the following times: upon application for a Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s Statement of Qualification; at any time during a its Reservation Period; or after its Commercial Operation Date, provided it is still within its compensation rate term, pursuant to 225 CMR 20.07(1). A Solar Tariff Generation Unit may add and/or remove an Energy Storage Adder one time during its compensation rate term.  

A Solar Tariff Generation Unit that qualifies for an Energy Storage Adder after its Commercial Operation Date may only receive the Compensation Rate Adder(s) for the remainder of its compensation rate term, provided it can demonstrate continued compliance with the eligibility criteria. The value of the Compensation Rate Adder for such facilities will be the applicable Compensation Rate Adder at the time the Solar Tariff Generation Unit qualifies for the Energy Storage Adder. If the Energy Storage System fails to comply with the eligibility criteria, the Energy Storage Adder shall be removed from the Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s total compensation rate established in its Statement of Qualification and/or Storage Addendum.  

If a Solar Tariff Generation Unit has received a preliminary Statement of Qualification and then wants to add energy storage to qualify for an energy storage adder, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit will be issued a Storage Addendum establishing a separate Reservation Period of 12 months from the Addendum’s issuance date for the Energy Storage System. Unless mechanical completion of the Energy Storage System occurs within the Addendum’s Reservation Period or the Energy Storage System receives an extension permitted under Section 6 of this Guideline, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit will lose eligibility for the Energy Storage Adder.  

A Solar Tariff Generation Unit with an Energy Storage System has three options when seeking an extended Reservation Period through Section 6 of this Guideline:  

i. In the case where the preliminary Statement of Qualification includes an Energy Storage Adder, the applicant may request: (1) a 6-month extension through Section 6(a), the Extended Reservation Period for a Fee; and/or (2) an indefinite extension through Section 6(c), the Extended Reservation Period Pending Authorization to interconnect, so long as both the Solar Tariff Generation Unit and the associated Energy Storage System meet the requirements of the extension.  

Example: If a Solar Tariff Generation Unit with an Energy Storage Adder requests an extension through Section 6(c), the applicant must demonstrate to the Department that both the solar photovoltaic system and the Energy Storage System are mechanically complete and only waiting on the Distribution Company’s notice of authorization to interconnect.  

ii. In the case where the Energy Storage System has received a Storage Addendum, the applicant may seek an extension for an extension pending authorization to interconnect in Section 6(c) or a fee as described in Section 6(f) of this Guideline.   
iii. In the case where the Solar Tariff Generation Unit receives notice of authorization to interconnect prior to the mechanical completion of the Energy Storage System, the Solar Tariff Generation Unit may request to de-couple the Energy Storage Adder from the Solar Tariff Generation Unit’s preliminary Statement of Qualification. The Department shall issue a Storage Addendum, which would establish a new 12-month Reservation Period for the Energy Storage System and maintain the adder’s original tranche allocation.  

10) Application Review Following the Completion of a Group Study, Affected System Operator Study, or Capital Investment Project  

If a distribution company completes a group study, Affected System Operator study, or Capital Investment Project (CIP), and the distribution company has issued multiple ISAs, the Department may inform Applicants that it will pause application processing within that distribution company’s open Capacity Blocks for no shorter than a five-day period. During that time, all applications will be considered to have been submitted at the same time. Applications will be ranked first by the executed ISA date, then by the date of the ISA application.  

# 11) Compliance with the SMART Tariffs  

A Solar Tariff Generation Unit must remain in compliance with the provisions set forth in the SMART Tariffs as approved by the Department of Public Utilities. A Solar Tariff Generation Unit determined to be non-compliant with the SMART Tariff may be notified by the Department of Energy Resources that they are found to be non-compliant pursuant to 225 CMR 20.11, which may result in the suspension or revocation of a preliminary and/or final Statement of Qualification.  