# CERTIFICATION OF ENROLLMENT  

# SECOND SUBSTITUTE HOUSE BILL 1814  

Chapter 212, Laws of 2022  

67th Legislature 2022 Regular Session  

COMMUNITY SOLAR PROJECTS—EXPANSION PROGRAM—VARIOUS PROVISIONS  

EFFECTIVE DATE: March 30, 2022  

Passed by the House March 10, 2022 Yeas 57  Nays 41  

# CERTIFICATE  

# Speaker of the House of Representatives  

LAURIE JINKINS  

I, Bernard Dean, Chief Clerk of the House of Representatives of the State of Washington, do hereby certify that the attached is SECOND SUBSTITUTE HOUSE BILL 1814 as passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate on the dates hereon set forth.  

Passed by the Senate March 10, 2022 Yeas 29  Nays 20  

DENNY HECK  

BERNARD DEAN  

# Chief Clerk  

# President of the Senate  

Approved March 30, 2022 2:30 PM  

FILED  

March 31, 2022  

JAY INSLEE  

# Secretary of State State of Washington  

# Governor of the State of Washington  

# SECOND SUBSTITUTE HOUSE BILL 1814  

AS AMENDED BY THE SENATE  

Passed Legislature - 2022 Regular Session  

# State of Washington  

67th Legislature 2022 Regular Session  

By House Finance (originally sponsored by Representatives Shewmake, Berry, Bateman, Duerr, Macri, Ramel, Paul, Bergquist, Fitzgibbon, Pollet, Harris-Talley, and Kloba)  

READ FIRST TIME 02/23/22.  

1 AN ACT Relating to expanding equitable access to the benefits of   
2 renewable energy through community solar projects; amending RCW   
3 82.16.130 and 82.16.170; adding new sections to chapter 82.16 RCW;   
4 creating new sections; providing expiration dates; and declaring an   
5 emergency.  

6 BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON:  

7 NEW SECTION.  Sec. 1.  The legislature finds and declares that   
8 stimulating local investment in community solar projects continues to   
9 be an important part of a state energy strategy by helping to   
10 increase energy independence from fossil fuels, promote economic   
11 development, hedge against the effects of climate change, and attain   
12 environmental benefits. The legislature finds that although previous   
13 community solar programs were successful in stimulating these   
14 benefits, the programs failed to provide an adequate framework for   
15 low-income participation and long-term market certainty. The   
16 legislature finds that the vast majority of Washingtonians still do   
17 not have access to the benefits of solar energy. The legislature   
18 intends to stimulate the deployment of community solar projects for   
19 the benefit of all Washingtonians by funding the renewable energy   
20 production incentive program for community solar projects and by   
21 creating opportunities for broader participation, especially by low  
1 income households and low-income service providers. As of December   
2 2021, the state is 10.3 megawatts short of the 115 megawatts of solar   
3 photovoltaic capacity established as a goal under RCW 82.16.155. The   
4 legislature therefore intends to provide an incentive sufficient to   
5 promote installation of community solar projects through June 30,   
6 2033, at which point the legislature expects to review the   
7 effectiveness of enhancing access to community solar projects.  

8 Sec. 2.  RCW 82.16.130 and 2017 3rd sp.s. c 36 s 4 are each 9 amended to read as follows: 10 (1) A light and power business is allowed a credit against taxes 11 due under this chapter in an amount equal to: 2 (a) Incentive payments made in any fiscal year under RCW 3 82.16.120 and 82.16.165; and (b) Any fees a utility is allowed to recover pursuant to RCW 82.16.165(5). 16 (2) The credits must be taken in a form and manner as required by 17 the department. The credit taken under this section for the fiscal 18 year may not exceed one and one-half percent of the ((businesses')) 19 business's taxable Washington power sales generated in calendar year 20 2014 and due under RCW 82.16.020(1)(b) or two hundred fifty thousand 21 dollars, whichever is greater, for incentive payments made for the 22 following: (a) Renewable energy systems, other than community solar projects, that are certified for an incentive payment as of June 30, 2020; and (b) Community solar and shared commercial projects that are under precertification status under RCW 82.16.165(7)(b) as of June 30, 2020, and that are certified for an incentive payment in accordance with the terms of that precertification by June 30, 2022. 30 (3) The credit may not exceed the tax that would otherwise be due 31 under this chapter. Refunds may not be granted in the place of 32 credits. Expenditures not used to earn a credit in one fiscal year 33 may not be used to earn a credit in subsequent years. 34 (4) For any business that has claimed credit for amounts that 35 exceed the correct amount of the incentive payable under RCW 36 82.16.120, the amount of tax against which credit was claimed for the 37 excess payments is immediately due and payable. The department may 38 deduct amounts due from future credits claimed by the business.  

1 (a) Except as provided in (b) of this subsection, the department 2 must assess interest but not penalties on the taxes against which the 3 credit was claimed. Interest must be assessed at the rate provided 4 for delinquent excise taxes under chapter 82.32 RCW, retroactively to 5 the date the credit was claimed, and accrues until the taxes against 6 which the credit was claimed are repaid. 7 (b) A business is not liable for excess payments made in reliance 8 amounts reported by the Washington State University extension 9 energy program as due and payable as provided under RCW 10 82.16.165(20), if such amounts are later found to be abnormal or 11 inaccurate due to no fault of the business. 12 (5) The amount of credit taken under this section is not 13 confidential taxpayer information under RCW 82.32.330 and is subject 14 to disclosure. 15 (6) The right to earn tax credits for incentive payments made 16 under RCW 82.16.120 expires June 30, 2020. Credits may not be claimed 17 after June 30, 2021. 8 (7)(a) The right to earn tax credits for incentive payments made 9 under RCW 82.16.165 for the following expires June 30, 2029: 0 (i) Renewable energy systems, other than community solar 1 projects, that are certified for an incentive payment as of June 30, 2 2020; and 23 (ii) Community solar and shared commercial projects that are 24 under precertification status under RCW 82.16.165(7)(b) as of June 25 30, 2020, and that are certified for an incentive payment in 26 accordance with the terms of that precertification by June 30, 2022. 27 (b) Credits may not be claimed after June 30, 2030. 28 (8) This section expires June 30, 2033.  

29 NEW SECTION.  Sec. 3.  A new section is added to chapter 82.16   
30 RCW to read as follows:   
31 (1) Beginning July 1, 2022, a light and power business is allowed   
32 a credit against taxes due under this chapter in an amount equal to   
33 incentive payments made in any fiscal year under section 5 of this   
34 act.   
35 (2) The credits must be taken in a form and manner as required by   
36 the department. The credit taken under this section for the fiscal   
37 year may not exceed 1.5 percent of the business's taxable Washington   
38 power sales generated in calendar year 2014 and due under RCW   
39 82.16.020(1)(b) or $\$250$ ,000, whichever is greater, for incentive   
1 payments made for community solar projects that submit an application   
2 for precertification under section 5 of this act on or after July 1,   
3 2022, and that are certified for an incentive payment in accordance   
4 with the terms of that precertification by June 30, 2033.   
5 (3) The credit may not exceed the tax that would otherwise be due   
6 under this chapter. Refunds may not be granted in the place of   
7 credits.   
8 (4) For any business that has claimed credit for amounts that   
9 exceed the correct amount of the incentive payable under section 5 of   
10 this act, the amount of tax against which credit was claimed for the   
11 excess payments is immediately due and payable. The department may   
12 deduct amounts from future credits claimed by the business.   
13 (a) Except as provided in (b) of this subsection, the department   
14 must assess interest but not penalties on the taxes against which the   
15 credit was claimed. Interest may be assessed at the rate provided for   
16 delinquent excise taxes under chapter 82.32 RCW, retroactively to the   
17 date the credit was claimed, and accrues until the taxes against   
18 which the credit was claimed are repaid.   
19 (b) A business is not liable for excess payments made in reliance   
20 on amounts reported by the Washington State University extension   
21 energy program as due and payable as provided under section 5 of this   
22 act, if such amounts are later found to be abnormal or inaccurate due   
23 to no fault of the business.   
24 (5) The amount of credit taken under this section is not   
25 confidential taxpayer information under RCW 82.32.330 and is subject   
26 to disclosure.   
27 (6) The right to earn tax credits for incentive payments made   
28 under section 5 of this act expires June 30, 2036. Credits may not be   
29 claimed under this section after June 30, 2037.   
30 (7) This section expires June 30, 2038.   
31 NEW SECTION.  Sec. 4.  A new section is added to chapter 82.16   
32 RCW to read as follows:   
33 (1) The definitions in this section apply throughout this section   
34 and section 5 of this act unless the context clearly requires   
35 otherwise.   
36 (a)(i) "Administrator" means the utility, nonprofit, tribal   
37 housing authority as provided in (a)(ii) of this subsection, or other   
38 local housing authority that organizes and administers a community   
39 solar project as provided in section 5 of this act and RCW 82.16.170.   
p. 4 2SHB 1814.SL   
1 (ii) A tribal housing authority may only administer a community   
2 solar project on tribal lands or lands held in trust for a federally   
3 recognized tribe by the United States for subscribers who are tribal   
4 members.   
5 (b) "Certification" means the authorization issued by the   
6 Washington State University extension energy program establishing a   
7 community solar project administrator's eligibility to receive a low  
8 income community solar incentive payment from the electric utility   
9 serving the site of the community solar project, on behalf of, and   
10 for the purpose of providing direct benefits to, its low-income   
11 subscribers, low-income service provider subscribers, and tribal and   
12 public agency subscribers.  

(c)(i) "Community solar project" means a solar energy system that: (A) Has a direct current nameplate capacity that is greater than 12 kilowatts but no greater than 199 kilowatts; (B) Has, at minimum, either two subscribers or one low-income service provider subscriber; and 9 (C) Meets the applicable eligibility requirements in section 5 of 0 this act. (ii) A community solar project may include a storage system with a solar energy system. (d) "Consumer-owned utility" has the same meaning as in RCW 19.280.020. (e) "Electric utility" or "utility" means a consumer-owned utility or investor-owned utility as those terms are defined in RCW 19.280.020. (f) "Energy assistance" has the same meaning as provided in RCW 19.405.020. 0 (g) "Energy burden" has the same meaning as provided in RCW 1 19.405.020. (h) "Governing body" has the same meaning as provided in RCW 19.280.020. 34 (i)(i) "Installed cost" includes only the renewable energy system 35 components and fees that are integral and necessary for the 36 generation and storage of electricity. Components and fees include: 37 (A) Solar modules and inverters; 38 (B) Battery systems; 39 (C) Balance of system, such as racking, wiring, switch gears, and 40 meter bases;  

1 (D) Nonhardware costs incurred up to the date of the final   
2 electrical inspection, such as fees associated with engineering,   
3 permitting, interconnection, and application;   
4 (E) Labor; and   
5 (F) Sales tax.   
6 (ii) "Installed cost" does not include structures and fixtures   
7 that are not integral and necessary to the generation or storage of   
8 electricity, such as carports and roofing.  

9 (j) "Interconnection customer" means the person, corporation, 10 partnership, government agency, or other entity that proposes to 11 interconnect, or has executed an interconnection agreement, with the 12 electric utility.  

(k) "Low-income" has the same meaning as provided in RCW 19.405.020.  

15 (l) "Low-income service provider" includes, but is not limited   
16 to, a local community action agency or local community service agency   
17 designated by the department of commerce under chapter 43.63A RCW,   
18 local housing authority, tribal housing authority, low-income tribal   
19 housing program, affordable housing provider, food bank, or other   
20 nonprofit organization that provides services to low-income   
21 households as part of their core mission.  

(m) "Multifamily residential building" means a building containing more than two sleeping units or dwelling units where occupants are primarily permanent in nature.  

(n) "Person" means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, agency, or any other legal entity.  

27 (o) "Preferred sites" means rooftops, structures, existing   
28 impervious surfaces, landfills, brownfields, previously developed   
29 sites, irrigation canals and ponds, stormwater collection ponds,   
30 industrial areas, dual-use solar projects that ensure ongoing   
31 agricultural operations, and other sites that do not displace   
32 critical habitat or productive farmland as defined by state and   
33 county planning processes.   
34 (p) "Public agency" means any political subdivision of the state   
35 including, but not limited to, municipal and county governments,   
36 special purpose districts, and local housing authorities, but does   
37 not include state agencies.   
38 (q)(i) Except as otherwise provided in (q)(ii) of this   
39 subsection, "qualifying subscriber" means a low-income subscriber,  

1 low-income service provider subscriber, tribal agency subscriber, or 2 public agency subscriber. 3 (ii) For tribal agency subscribers and public agency subscribers, 4 only the portion of their subscription to a community solar project 5 that is demonstrated to benefit low-income beneficiaries, including 6 low-income service providers and services provided to low-income 7 citizens or households, is to be considered a qualifying subscriber. 8 (r) "Retail electric customer" has the same meaning as in RCW 9 80.60.010. 10 (s) "Subscriber" means a retail electric customer of an electric 11 utility who owns or is the beneficiary of one or more units of a 12 community solar project directly interconnected with that same 13 utility. 14 "Subscription" means an agreement between a subscriber and 15 the administrator of a community solar project. 16 (2) This section expires June 30, 2038. 17 NEW SECTION.  Sec. 5.  A new section is added to chapter 82.16 18 RCW to read as follows: 19 (1) Beginning July 1, 2022, through June 30, 2033, an 20 administrator of a community solar project meeting the eligibility 21 requirements described in this section and RCW 82.16.170(3) may 22 submit an application to the Washington State University extension 23 energy program to receive a precertification for a community solar 24 project. Projects with precertification applications approved by the 25 Washington State University extension energy program have two years 26 to complete their projects and apply for certification. Projects that 27 have not completed certification within two years may apply to the 28 Washington State University extension energy program for an extension 29 of their precertification status for an additional 180 days if they 30 can demonstrate significant progress during the time they were in 31 precertification status. By certifying qualified projects pursuant to 32 the requirements of this section and RCW 82.16.170(3), the Washington 33 State University extension energy program authorizes the utility 34 serving the site of a community solar project in the state of 35 Washington to remit a one-time low-income community solar incentive 36 payment to the community solar project administrator, who accepts the 37 payment on behalf of, and for the purpose of providing direct 38 benefits to, the project's qualifying subscribers.  

1 (2) A one-time low-income community solar incentive payment   
2 remitted to a community solar project administrator for a project   
3 certified under this section equals the sum of the following:   
4 (a) An amount, not to exceed $\$20$ ,000 per community solar project,   
5 equal to the community solar project's administrative costs related   
6 to the administrative start-up of the project for qualifying   
7 subscribers; and   
8 (b) An amount that does not exceed 100 percent of the   
9 proportional cost of the installed cost of the share of the community   
10 solar project that provides direct benefits to qualifying   
11 subscribers, taking into account any federal tax credits or other   
12 federal or nonfederal grants or incentives that the program is   
13 benefiting from.  

(3) No new certification may be issued under this section for a community solar project that was certified under RCW 82.16.120 or 82.16.165, or for a community solar project served by a utility that has elected not to participate in the incentive program provided in this section.  

(4) Community solar projects that are under precertification status under RCW 82.16.165 as of June 30, 2020, may not apply for precertification of that same project for the one-time low-income community solar incentive payment provided in this section.  

(5)(a) In addition to the one-time low-income community solar  

incentive payment under subsection (2) of this section, a participating utility must also provide the following compensation for the generation of electricity from the certified project: (i) For a community solar project that has an alternating current nameplate capacity no greater than 100 kilowatts, and that is connected behind the electric service meter, compensation must be determined in accordance with RCW 80.60.020 and provided to the retail electric customer receiving service at the situs of the meter.   
32 (ii) For all other community solar projects for which the   
33 administrator is not a utility, compensation paid to the   
34 interconnection customer must be determined in a written agreement   
35 between the interconnection customer and the utility.   
36 (iii) For all other community solar projects for which the   
37 administrator is a utility, compensation must be provided directly to   
38 subscribers in accordance with subsection (8)(a)(i) of this section.   
39 (iv)(A) When the administrator of a community solar project   
40 receives compensation for the generation of electricity from a p. 8 2SHB 1814.SL  

1 participating utility, interconnection customer, or from the retail   
2 electric customer that is the host for the community solar project,   
3 the administrator must provide all of that compensation as a direct   
4 benefit to the project subscribers, except as described in (iv)(B) of   
5 this subsection.   
6 (B) An administrator may deduct ongoing administrative and   
7 maintenance costs from compensation they provide to subscribers from   
8 power generation, provided those costs are identified in the   
9 subscription agreement or justified to the Washington State   
10 University extension energy program. The Washington State University   
11 extension energy program shall review any such administrative and   
12 maintenance costs justifications for reasonableness and approve,   
13 reject, or negotiate changes to the proposal. An administrator may   
14 request a change in the deduction for administrative and maintenance   
15 costs to the Washington State University extension energy program   
16 only if the subscription agreement includes language notifying the   
17 subscriber that administrative and maintenance fees are subject to   
18 change.   
19 (b) For 10 years after certification, and by March 1st of each   
20 year following certification, the administrator must provide the   
21 Washington State University extension energy program with signed   
22 statements of the following for the preceding year:  

(i) The energy production for the period for which compensation is to be provided; (ii) Each subscriber's units of the project; (iii) The amount disbursed to each subscriber for the period; and (iv) The date and amount disbursed to each subscriber. (6) A utility's participation in the incentive program provided in this section is voluntary.  

30 (a) The utility may terminate its voluntary participation in the   
31 program by providing notice in writing to the Washington State   
32 University extension energy program to cease accepting new   
33 applications for precertification for community solar projects that   
34 would be served by that utility. Such notice of termination of   
35 participation is effective after 15 days, at which point the   
36 Washington State University extension energy program may not accept   
37 new applications for precertification for community solar projects   
38 that would be served by that utility.  

39 (b) Upon receiving a utility's notice of termination of 40 participation in the incentive program, the Washington State p. 9 2SHB 1814.SL  

1 University extension energy program must report on its website that   
2 community solar project customers of that utility are no longer   
3 eligible to receive new certifications under the program.   
4 (c) A utility that has terminated participation in the program   
5 may resume participation upon filing a notice with the Washington   
6 State University extension energy program.   
7 (7)(a) The Washington State University extension energy program   
8 may issue certifications authorizing incentive payments under this   
9 section in a total statewide amount not to exceed \$100,000,000, and   
10 subject to the following biennial dollar limits:   
11 (i) For fiscal year 2023, $\$300$ ,000; and   
12 (ii) For each biennium beginning on or after July 1, 2023,   
13 \$25,000,000.   
14 (b) The Washington State University extension energy program must   
15 attempt to equitably distribute incentive funds throughout the state.   
16 Considerations for equitable fund distribution, based on   
17 precertification applications received from administrators served by   
18 utilities voluntarily participating in the program, may include   
19 measures to reserve or allocate available funds based on the   
20 proportion of public utility taxes collected, the proportion of the   
21 state's low-income customers served by each utility based on low  
22 income home energy assistance program data at the department of   
23 commerce, measures to achieve an equitable geographic distribution of   
24 community solar installations and a diversity of administrative   
25 models for community solar projects, and the amount of energy burden   
26 reduction for qualifying subscribers relative to the project's cost.   
27 If an equitable distribution of funds is not feasible due to a lack   
28 of precertification applications, the Washington State University   
29 extension energy program may allocate funds based on (a) of this   
30 subsection on a first-come, first-served basis.   
31 (c) The Washington State University extension energy program must   
32 ensure that at least $\$2$ ,000,000 of the statewide total for the entire   
33 program is used to support nonprofit organizations' innovative   
34 approaches to allocating benefits to subscribers, defining and   
35 valuing benefits to be provided to subscribers or other aspects of   
36 the subscriber, administrator, system host, and utility relationship.  

(d) The Washington State University extension energy program must also ensure that at least $\$2$ ,000,000 of the statewide total for the entire program is available to tribal governments and their designated subdivisions and agencies.  

1 (e) The Washington State University extension energy program   
2 shall regularly publish and update guidelines for how it manages the   
3 allocation of available funding, based on the evaluation of   
4 applications and the factors specified in (b) of this subsection.   
5 (f) Beginning in fiscal year 2026, the Washington State   
6 University extension energy program may waive the requirements in (c)   
7 or (d) of this subsection if it fails to receive applications that   
8 meet the criteria of (c) or (d) of this subsection sufficient to   
9 result in the full allocation of incentives.   
10 (8)(a) Prior to obtaining certification under this section, the   
11 administrator of a community solar project must apply for   
12 precertification against the funds available for incentive payments   
13 under subsection (7) of this section in order to be guaranteed an   
14 incentive payment under this section. The application for   
15 precertification must include, at a minimum:  

(i) A demonstration of how the project will deliver continuing direct benefits to low-income subscribers. A direct benefit can include credit for the power generation for the community solar project or other mechanisms that lower the energy burden of a lowincome subscriber; and  

(ii) Any other information the Washington State University extension energy program deems necessary in determining eligibility for precertification.  

4 (b) The administrator of a community solar project must complete   
5 an application for certification in accordance with the requirements   
6 of subsection (9) of this section within less than two years of being   
7 approved for precertification status. The administrator must submit a   
8 project update to the Washington State University extension energy   
9 program after one year in precertification status.   
0 (9) To obtain certification for the one-time community solar   
1 incentive payment provided under this section, a project   
2 administrator must submit to the Washington State University   
3 extension energy program an application, including, at a minimum:   
34 (a) A signed statement that the applicant has not previously   
35 received a notice of eligibility from the department under RCW   
36 82.16.120 or the Washington State University extension energy program   
37 under RCW 82.16.165 entitling the applicant to receive annual   
38 incentive payments for electricity generated by the community solar   
39 project at the same meter location;  

1 (b) A signed statement of the costs paid by the administrator 2 related to administering the project for qualifying subscribers; 3 (c) A signed statement of the total project costs, including the 4 proportional cost of the share of the community solar project that 5 provides direct benefits to qualifying subscribers; 6 (d) A signed statement describing the amount of the upfront 7 incentive and the timing, method, and distribution of estimated 8 benefits to qualifying subscribers. The statement must describe any 9 estimated energy burden reduction associated with the direct   
10 benefits; 1 Available system operation data, such as global positioning 2 system coordinates, tilt, estimated shading, and azimuth; 3 (f) Any other information the Washington State University 4 extension energy program deems necessary in determining eligibility 5 and incentive levels or administering the program;   
16 (g)(i) Except as provided in (g)(ii) of this subsection (9), the   
17 date that the community solar project received its final electrical   
18 inspection from the applicable local jurisdiction, as well as a copy   
19 of the permit or, if the permit is available online, the permit   
20 number or other documentation deemed acceptable by the Washington   
21 State University extension energy program;   
22 (ii) The Washington State University extension energy program may   
23 waive the requirement in (g)(i) of this subsection (9), accepting an   
24 application and granting provisional certification prior to proof of   
25 final electrical inspection. Provisional certification expires 180   
26 days after issuance, unless the applicant submits proof of the final   
27 electrical inspection from the applicable local jurisdiction or the   
28 Washington State University extension energy program extends   
29 certification, for a term or terms of 30 days, due to extenuating   
30 circumstances; 1 (h) Confirmation of the number of qualifying subscribers;  

32 (i) A copy of the executed agreement describing how benefits will   
33 be determined and distributed from the retail electric customer or   
34 interconnection customer to the administrator if the administrator   
35 and the retail electric customer or interconnection customer are not   
36 the same. The Washington State University extension energy program   
37 must review the executed agreement to determine that benefits are   
38 being fairly determined and that there is an adequate plan for   
39 distributing the benefits; and   
1 (j) Any other information the Washington State University   
2 extension energy program deems necessary in determining eligibility   
3 and incentive levels or administering the program.   
4 (10) No incentive payments may be authorized or accrued until the   
5 final electrical inspection and executed interconnection agreement   
6 are submitted to the Washington State University extension energy   
7 program.   
8 (11)(a) The Washington State University extension energy program   
9 must review each project for which an application for certification   
10 is submitted in accordance with subsection (8) of this section for   
11 reasonable cost and financial structure, with a targeted installed   
12 cost for the solar energy system of $\$2$ per watt direct current for   
13 systems over 200 kilowatts and $\$2.25$ per watt direct current for   
14 systems equal to or under 200 kilowatts. For solar energy systems   
15 that include storage systems, the targeted installed cost of the   
16 storage system is $\$600$ per kilowatt-hour of storage capacity.   
7 (b) The Washington State University extension energy program may   
8 approve an application for a project that costs more or less than the   
9 targeted installed costs under (a) of this subsection based on a   
0 review of the project, documents submitted by the project applicant,   
1 and available data. Project cost evaluations may include costs   
2 associated with energy storage systems and electrical system   
3 improvements to permit grid-independent operation. Applicants may   
4 petition the Washington State University extension energy program to   
5 approve a higher cost per watt or per kilowatt-hour for unusual   
6 circumstances.  

(c) The Washington State University extension energy program may review the cost per watt target under (a) of this subsection prior to each fiscal biennium and is authorized to determine a new cost per watt target.  

31 (12)(a) Within 30 days of receipt of an application for   
32 certification, the Washington State University extension energy   
33 program must notify the applicant and, except when a utility is the   
34 applicant, the utility serving the site of the community solar   
35 project, by mail or electronically, whether certification has been   
36 granted. The certification notice must state the total dollar amount   
37 of the low-income community solar incentive payment for which the   
38 applicant is eligible under this section.   
9 (b) Within 60 days of receipt of a notification under (a) of this   
40 subsection, the utility serving the site of the community solar   
1 project must remit the applicable one-time low-income community solar   
2 incentive payment to the project administrator, who accepts the   
3 payment on behalf of, and for the purpose of providing direct   
4 benefits to, the project's qualifying subscribers.   
5 (13)(a) Certification follows the community solar project if the   
6 following conditions are met using procedures established by the   
7 Washington State University extension energy program:  

8 (i) The community solar project is transferred to a new owner who 9 notifies the Washington State University extension energy program of 10 the transfer;  

11 (ii) The new owner provides an executed interconnection agreement   
12 with the utility serving the site of the community solar project; and   
13 (iii) The new owner agrees to provide equivalent ongoing benefits   
14 to qualifying subscribers as the current owner. 5 (b) In the event that a qualifying subscriber terminates their 6 participation in a community solar project during the first 120   
7 months after project certification, the system certification follows   
8 the project and participation must be transferred to a new qualifying   
9 subscriber. (14) Beginning January 1, 2023, the Washington State University extension energy program must post on its website and update at least monthly a report, by utility, of: (a) The number of certifications issued for community solar projects; and (b) An estimate of the amount of credit that has not yet been allocated for low-income community solar incentive payments and that remains available for new community solar project certifications in the state.   
29 (15) Persons receiving incentive payments under this section must   
30 keep and preserve, for a period of five years for the duration of the   
31 consumer contract, suitable records as may be necessary to determine   
32 the amount of incentive payments applied for and received.   
33 (16) The nonpower attributes of the community solar project must   
34 be retired on behalf of the subscribers unless, in the case of a   
35 utility-owned community solar project, a contract between the   
36 subscriber that benefits the subscriber clearly states that the   
37 attributes will be retained and retired by the utility.   
38 (17) All lists, technical specifications, determinations, and   
39 guidelines developed under this section must be made publicly p. 14 2SHB 1814.SL  

1 available online by the Washington State University extension energy   
2 program.   
3 (18) The Washington State University extension energy program   
4 may, through a public process, develop program requirements,   
5 policies, and processes necessary for the administration or   
6 implementation of this section.   
7 (19) Applications, certifications, requests for incentive   
8 payments under this section, and the information contained therein   
9 are not deemed tax information under RCW 82.32.330 and are subject to   
10 disclosure.   
11 (20) No certification may be issued under this section by the   
12 Washington State University extension energy program for a community   
13 solar project after June 30, 2035.   
14 (21) Community solar projects certified under this section must   
15 be sited on preferred sites to protect natural and working lands as   
16 determined by the Washington State University extension energy   
17 program.  

18 (22) This section expires June 30, 2038.  

19 Sec. 6.  RCW 82.16.170 and 2017 3rd sp.s. c 36 s 7 are each   
20 amended to read as follows:   
21 (1) The purpose of community solar programs is to facilitate   
22 broad, equitable community investment in and access to solar power.   
23 Beginning July 1, 2017, a community solar administrator may organize   
24 and administer a community solar project as provided in this section.   
25 (2) ((A)) In order to receive certification for the incentive   
26 payment provided under RCW 82.16.165(1) by June 30, 2021, a community   
27 solar project must have a direct current nameplate capacity that is   
28 no more than one thousand kilowatts and must have at least ten   
29 participants or at least one participant for every ten kilowatts of   
30 direct current nameplate capacity, whichever is greater. A community   
31 solar project that has a direct current nameplate capacity greater   
32 than five hundred kilowatts must be subject to a standard   
33 interconnection agreement with the utility serving the situs of the   
34 community solar project. Except for community solar projects   
35 authorized under subsection ( $(\nleftarrow9+)$ ) (10) of this section, each   
36 participant must be a customer of the utility providing service at   
37 the situs of the community solar project.   
1 (3) In order to receive certification for the incentive payment   
2 provided under section 5 of this act beginning July 1, 2022, a   
3 community solar project must meet the following requirements:   
4 (a) The administrator of the community solar project must be a   
5 utility, nonprofit, or tribal housing authority that administers a   
6 community solar project on tribal lands or lands held in trust for a   
7 federally recognized tribe by the United States for subscribers who   
8 are tribal members, or other local housing authority. The   
9 administrator of the community solar project must apply for   
10 precertification under section 5 of this act on or after July 1,   
11 2022;  

(b) The community solar project must have a direct current 3 nameplate capacity that is greater than 12 kilowatts but no greater than 199 kilowatts, and must have at least two subscribers or one low-income service provider subscriber;  

(c) The administrator of the community solar project must provide a verified list of qualifying subscribers;  

(d) Verification that an individual household subscriber meets the definition of low-income must be provided to the administrator by an entity with authority to maintain the confidentiality of the income status of the low-income subscriber. If the providing entity incurs costs to verify a subscriber's income status, the administrator must provide reimbursement of those costs;  

4 (e) Except for community solar projects authorized under   
5 subsection (10) of this section, each subscriber must be a customer   
6 of the utility providing service at the site of the community solar   
7 project;   
28 (f) In the event that a low-income subscriber in a community   
29 solar project certified under section 5 of this act moves within 120   
30 months of system certification from the household premises of the   
31 subscriber's current subscription to another, the subscriber may   
32 continue the subscription, provided that the new household premises   
33 is served by the utility providing service at the site of the   
34 community solar project. In the event that a subscriber is no longer   
35 served by that utility or the subscriber terminates participation in   
36 a community solar project certified under section 5 of this act, the   
37 certification follows the system and participation must be   
38 transferred by the administrator to a new qualifying subscriber as   
39 specified in section 5 of this act;   
1 (g) The administrator must include in the application for   
2 precertification a project prospectus that demonstrates how the   
3 administrator intends to provide direct benefits to qualifying   
4 subscribers for the duration of their subscription to the community   
5 solar project; and  

(h) The length of the subscription term for low-income subscribers must be the same length as for other subscribers, if applicable.  

9 (4) The administrator of a community solar project must   
10 administer the project in a transparent manner that allows for fair   
11 and nondiscriminatory opportunity for participation by utility   
12 customers.   
3 ( $(\leftarrow4)$ ) (5) The administrator of a community solar project may   
4 establish a reasonable fee to cover costs incurred in organizing and   
5 administering the community solar project. Project participants,   
6 prior to making the commitment to participate in the project, must be   
7 given clear and conspicuous notice of the portion of the incentive   
8 payment that will be used for this purpose.   
19 (((5))) (6) The administrator of a community solar project must   
20 maintain and update annually through June 30, 2030, the following   
21 information for each project it operates or administers:   
22 (a) Ownership information;   
23 (b) Contact information for technical management questions;   
24 (c) Business address;   
25 (d) Project design details, including project location, output   
26 capacity, equipment list, and interconnection information; and   
27 $\left(\in\right)$ Subscription information, including rates, fees, terms, and   
28 conditions.   
29 (((6))) (7) The administrator of a community solar project must   
30 provide the information required in subsection ( $(\nleftarrow5+)$ ) (6) of this   
31 section to the Washington State University extension energy program   
32 at the time it submits the applications allowed under RCW   
33 82.16.165(1) and section 5 of this act.   
34 (((7))) (8) The administrator of a community solar project must   
35 provide each project participant with a disclosure form containing   
36 all material terms and conditions of participation in the project,   
37 including but not limited to the following:   
38 (a) Plain language disclosure of the terms under which the   
39 project participant's share of any incentive payment will be   
p. 17 2SHB 1814.SL  

1 calculated by the Washington State University extension energy 2 program ((over the life of the contract)); 3 (b) Contract provisions regulating the disposition or transfer of 4 the project participant's interest in the project, including any 5 potential costs associated with such a transfer; 6 (c) All recurring and nonrecurring charges; 7 (d) A description of the billing and payment procedures; 8 (e) A description of any compensation to be paid in the event of 9 project underperformance;   
10 (f) Current production projections and a description of the   
11 methodology used to develop the projections;   
12 (g) Contact information for questions and complaints; and   
13 (h) Any other terms and conditions of the services provided by   
14 the administrator.   
15 (((8))) (9) A utility may not adopt rates, terms, conditions, or   
16 standards that unduly or unreasonably discriminate between utility  
17 administered community solar projects and those administered by   
18 another entity.   
19 (((9))) (10) A public utility district that is engaged in   
20 distributing electricity to more than one retail electric customer in   
21 the state and a joint operating agency organized under chapter 43.52   
22 RCW on or before January 1, 2017, may enter into an agreement with   
23 each other to construct and own a community solar project that is   
24 located on property owned by a joint operating agency or on property   
25 that receives electric service from a participating public utility   
26 district. Each participant of a community solar project under this   
27 subsection must be a customer of at least one of the public utility   
28 districts that is a party to the agreement with a joint operating   
29 agency to construct and own a community solar project.   
30 (((10))) (11) The Washington utilities and transportation   
31 commission must publish, without disclosing proprietary information,   
32 a list of the following:   
33 (a) Entities other than utilities, including affiliates or   
34 subsidiaries of utilities, that organize and administer community  

35 solar projects; and   
36 (b) Community solar projects and related programs and services   
37 offered by investor-owned utilities.   
38 (12) If a consumer-owned utility opts to provide a   
39 community solar program or contracts with a nonutility administrator   
40 to offer a community solar program, the governing body of the   
p. 18 2SHB 1814.SL   
1 consumer-owned utility must publish, without disclosing proprietary   
2 information, a list of the nonutility administrators contracted by   
3 the utility as part of its community solar program.   
4 (((12))) (13) Except for parties engaged in actions and   
5 transactions regulated under laws administered by other authorities   
6 and exempted under RCW 19.86.170, a violation of this section   
7 constitutes an unfair or deceptive act in trade or commerce in   
8 violation of chapter 19.86 RCW, the consumer protection act. Acts in   
9 violation of chapter 36, Laws of 2017 3rd sp. sess. are not   
10 reasonable in relation to the development and preservation of   
11 business, and constitute matters vitally affecting the public   
12 interest for the purpose of applying the consumer protection act,   
13 chapter 19.86 RCW.   
14 (((13))) (14) Nothing in this section may be construed as   
15 intending to preclude persons from investing in or possessing an   
16 ownership interest in a community solar project, or from applying for   
17 and receiving federal investment tax credits.   
18 (15) This section expires June 30, 2038.   
19 NEW SECTION.  Sec. 7.  RCW 82.32.808 does not apply to this act.   
20 NEW SECTION.  Sec. 8.  This act is necessary for the immediate   
21 preservation of the public peace, health, or safety, or support of   
22 the state government and its existing public institutions, and takes   
23 effect immediately.  

Passed by the House March 10, 2022.   
Passed by the Senate March 10, 2022.   
Approved by the Governor March 30, 2022.   
Filed in Office of Secretary of State March 31, 2022.  