# Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit  

If you install qualified vehicle refueling or electric vehicle recharging property in your home or business, you may be eligible for the Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Tax Credit. The credit was extended and modified by the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA). The property must be installed in a qualifying location and the credit allowed is based on the placed-in-service date for the qualifying property.  

# On this page  

Who qualifies   
Qualified refueling property   
Amount of credit   
How to claim the credit  

# Who qualifies  

The credit is available to businesses and individuals that place qualified refueling property into service during the tax year. Eligibletax-exemp and governmental entities can also claim the credit through elective pay.  

# Individuals  

If you installqualified vehicle refueling and recharging property at your home, including electric vehicle charging equipment, you may be eligibl for a credit of upto $\$1,000$ for each item of property.  

For more information see Publication 6027, Individuals, Electric Vehicle Chargers, and the Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit F  

# Businesses  

If your business installs qualified vehicle refueling and recharging property,including electric vehicle charging equipment, it may be eligible fora creditof upto $\$100,000$ foreach qualified item of property.  

For more information see Publication 6028, Businesses and the Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit PDF  

# Tax-exempt entities  

Eligible tax-exempt and governmental entities can claim the credit through a new mechanism called elective pay (also known as “direct pay") o upto $\$100,000$ for each qualified item of property.  

To claim the credit for your organization, you must notify the seller in writing that you intend to claim via elective pay. Otherwise, the seller can claim the credit if they clearly disclose to you the amount of the credit allowable. However, a seller that claims the credit may be willing to install the eligible property at a lower upfront cost to you by passing its tax savings to your organization.  

For more information see Publication 6029, Tax-Exempt Entities and the Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit PDF  

# Qualified refueling property  

To qualify for the credit, refueling property must be used to store or dispense clean-burning fuel or to recharge electric motor vehicles.  

In addition, the property must:  

·Be placed in service during the tax year   
· Have original use that began with the taxpayer   
·Be used primarily in the U.S. and U.S. territories   
· If not business or investment use property, be installed on property used as a main home   
·Be in an eligible census tract (as of January 1, 2023)   
·Be depreciable property if not for personal use  

As of January 1, 2023, the definition of qualified property includes charging stations for 2- and 3-wheeled electric vehicles (for use on publi roads) and includes bidirectional charging equipment.  

# Eligible census tracts  

To qualify,the refueling or recharging property must be installed in a low-income community census tract or non-urban census tract. Follov these steps based on the date when you placed the property in service to see if your location qualifies.  

# For property placed in service before January 1, 2025:  

1. Locate your property on the 2015 Census Tract Identifier and copy your 11-digit census tract geographic identifier (GEOID).   
2. Look up your GEOID in Appendix A PpF]. If your GEOID is not listed, then your property is not eligible for the credit.  

# For property placed in service after January 1, 2025:  

1. Locate your property on the 2020 Census Tract Identifier and copy your 11-digit census tract geographic identifier (GEOID).   
2. Look up your GEOlD in Appendix B PpF]. If your GEOID is not listed, then your property is not eligible for the credit.  

We'll periodically publish updated lists of qualified census tracts in the Federal Register or Internal Revenue Bulletin, so check back laterto see you're eligible.  

# Amount of credit  

As of January 1, 2023, the credit for qualified refueling property subject to depreciation equals $6\%$ with a maximum credit of $\$100,000$ for eacl single item of property (for each charging port, fuel dispenser, or storage property).  

Businesses and tax-exempt entities that meet prevailing wage and apprenticeship requirements are eligible for a $30\%$ credit with the same \$100,000 limit.  

For consumers who purchase and install qualified alternative fuel vehicle refueling property for their principal residence, including electric vehicle charging equipment, between December 31, 2022, and January 1, 2033, the tax credit equals $30\%$ of the cost with a maximum amount of $\$1,000$ per item (for each charging port, fuel dispenser, or storage property).  

For property placed in service before January 1, 2023 (including personal property), the credit is $30\%$ of the cost of qualified refueling propert: with a maximum total credit allowed of $\$30,000$ per location for depreciable property and $\$1,000$ per location for all other property.  

# How to claim the credit  

Use Form 8911 F and Instructions for Form 8911to determine and report your credit foralternative fuel vehicle refueling property placed in service during the tax year.  

Partnerships and S corporations must file Form 8911 to claim the credit. All other taxpayers are not required to complete or file the form if their only source for this credit is a partnership or S corporation. Instead, they can report this credit directly on line 1s of Part ll of Form 3800, General BusinessCredit.  

# Special rules  

The portion of the credit for business or investment use of refueling property is treated as a general business credit carried from the Form 8911 tc the Form 3800 and subject to the rules applicable to the general business credit.  

The portion of the credit for personal use of refueling property cannot exceed the excess of the regular tax liability reduced by certain allowable credits over the tentative minimum tax (if any) for the taxable year as determined on Form 6251. The personal use part of the credit is carried from Form 8911 to the Form 1040, Schedule 3.  

The basis of any refueling property for which a credit is taken must be reduced by the amount of the credit.  

The credit is subject to recapture ifthe property the credit applied for ceases to qualify within 3 full years from the placed-in-service date  

# Laws and guidance  

· Treasury, IRS issue guidance on the Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit   
· NPRM: Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit   
·Notice 2024-64, Modification of Notice 2024-20   
· Notice 2024-20, Guidance on Satisfying Geographical Requirements of the Section 30C Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit   
· Treasury, IRS issue guidance on the Qualified Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit  

# Related  

· Frequently asked questions regarding eligible census tracts for purposes of the Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit under § 30C   
·Refueling Infrastructure Tax Credit   
·Refueling Infrastructure Tax Credit: FAQ   
·Credits and Deductions Under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022  

·About Form 8911, Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Credit  

Page Last Reviewed or Updated: 27-Jan-2025  