J. The department shall compile an annual report on the foster youth employment income tax credit that shall include the number of taxpayers approved by the department to receive the credit, the aggregate amount of credits approved and any other information necessary to evaluate the effectiveness of the credit. The department shall present the annual report to the revenue stabilization and tax policy committee and the legislative finance committee with an analysis of the effectiveness and cost of the tax credit and whether the tax credit is performing the purpose for which it was created.  

K. As used in this section, "qualified foster youth" means an individual:  

(1) who:  

(a) is currently in the legal custody of the children, youth and families department pursuant to the Children's Code or in the legal custody of a New Mexico Indian nation, tribe or pueblo or the United States department of the interior bureau of Indian affairs division of human services; or  

(b) within the seven years prior to the taxable year for which the tax credit is claimed, was aged fourteen years or older and was in the legal custody of the children, youth and families department pursuant to the Children's Code or in the legal custody of a New Mexico Indian nation, tribe or pueblo or the United States department of the interior bureau of Indian affairs division of human services;  

(2) who works at least twenty hours per week during the taxable year for which the foster youth employment income tax credit is claimed; and  

(3) who was not previously employed by the taxpayer prior to the taxable year for which the foster youth employment income tax credit is claimed.  

History: Laws 2018, ch. 36, $\S1$ .  

# ANNOTATIONS  

Effective dates. — Laws 2018, ch. 36 contained no effective date provision, but, pursuant to N.M. Const., art. IV, $\S\:23$ , was effective May 16, 2018, 90 days after the adjournment of the legislature.  

Applicability. — Laws 2018, ch. 36, $\S3$ provided that the provisions of Laws 2018, ch.   
36, $\S\S$ 1 and 2 apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.  

# 7-2-18.31. New solar market development income tax credit.  

A. For taxable years prior to January 1, 2032, a taxpayer who is not a dependent of another individual and who, on or after March 1, 2020, purchases and installs a solar thermal system or a photovoltaic system in a residence, business or agricultural enterprise in New Mexico owned by that taxpayer or by a federally recognized Indian  

nation, tribe or pueblo and held in leasehold by that taxpayer may apply for, and the department may allow, a credit against the taxpayer's tax liability imposed pursuant to the Income Tax Act in an amount provided in Subsection C of this section.  The tax credit provided by this section may be referred to as the "new solar market development income tax credit".  

B. The purpose of the new solar market development income tax credit is to encourage the installation of solar thermal and photovoltaic systems in residences, businesses and agricultural enterprises. C. The department may allow a new solar market development income tax credit of ten percent of the purchase and installation costs of a solar thermal or photovoltaic system. D. The new solar market development income tax credit shall not exceed six thousand dollars $(\$6,000$ per taxpayer per taxable year.  The department shall allow a tax credit only for solar thermal and photovoltaic systems certified pursuant to Subsection E of this section.  

E. Subject to the limitation provided in Subsection F of this section, a taxpayer shall apply for certification of eligibility for the new solar market development income tax credit from the energy, minerals and natural resources department on forms and in the manner prescribed by that department.  Completed applications shall be considered in the order received.  The application shall include proof of purchase and installation of a solar thermal or photovoltaic system, that the system meets technical specifications and requirements relating to safety, code and standards compliance, solar collector orientation and sun exposure, minimum system sizes, system applications and lists of eligible components and any additional information that the energy, minerals and natural resources department may require to determine eligibility for the credit.  A dated certificate of eligibility shall be issued to the taxpayer providing the amount of the new solar market development income tax credit for which the taxpayer is eligible and the taxable year in which the credit may be claimed.  A certificate of eligibility for a new solar market development income tax credit may be sold, exchanged or otherwise transferred to another taxpayer for the full value of the credit.  The parties to such a transaction shall notify the department of the sale, exchange or transfer within ten days of the sale, exchange or transfer.  

F. The aggregate amount of credits that may be certified pursuant to Subsection E of this section is as follows, and applications for certification received after these limitations have been met shall not be approved:  

(1) for calendar years 2020 through 2023, twelve million dollars (\$12,000,000) for each calendar year; provided that if this limitation has been met for any of those calendar years, an additional total of twenty million dollars $(\$20,000,000$ in credits may be certified for all of those calendar years; and provided further that credits certified pursuant to this paragraph shall be claimed only for taxable year 2023; and  

(2) for calendar years 2024 and thereafter, thirty million dollars (\$30,000,000).  

G. A taxpayer may claim a new solar market development income tax credit for the taxable year in which the taxpayer purchases and installs a solar thermal or photovoltaic system.  To receive a new solar market development income tax credit, a taxpayer shall apply to the department on forms and in the manner prescribed by the department within twelve months following the calendar year in which the system was installed; provided that, for a taxpayer who receives a certificate of eligibility pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Subsection F of this section, the taxpayer shall apply to the department within twelve months following the calendar year in which the certification is made.  The application shall include a certification made pursuant to Subsection E of this section.  

H. That portion of a new solar market development income tax credit that exceeds a taxpayer's tax liability in the taxable year in which the credit is claimed shall be refunded to the taxpayer.  

I. Married individuals filing separate returns for a taxable year for which they could have filed a joint return may each claim only one-half of the new solar market development income tax credit that would have been claimed on a joint return.  

J. A taxpayer may be allocated the right to claim a new solar market development income tax credit in proportion to the taxpayer's ownership interest if the taxpayer owns an interest in a business entity that is taxed for federal income tax purposes as a partnership or limited liability company and that business entity has met all of the requirements to be eligible for the credit.  The total credit claimed by all members of the partnership or limited liability company shall not exceed the allowable credit pursuant to this section.  

K. A taxpayer allowed a tax credit pursuant to this section shall report the amount of the credit to the taxation and revenue department in a manner required by that department.  

L. The taxation and revenue department shall compile an annual report on the new solar market development income tax credit that shall include the number of taxpayers approved by the department to receive the credit, the aggregate amount of credits approved and any other information necessary to evaluate the credit.  The department shall present the report to the revenue stabilization and tax policy committee and the legislative finance committee with an analysis of the cost of the tax credit.  

M. As used in this section:  

(1) "photovoltaic system" means an energy system that collects or absorbs sunlight for conversion into electricity; and  

(2) "solar thermal system" means an energy system that collects or absorbs solar energy for conversion into heat for the purposes of space heating, space cooling or water heating.  

History:  Laws 2020, ch. 13, $\S$ 1; 2022, ch. 47, § 8; 2024, ch. 67, $\S\O38$ .  

# ANNOTATIONS  

The 2024 amendment, effective May 15, 2024, increased the aggregate cap of available tax credits for solar system purchase and installation to thirty million dollars from twelve million dollars for calendar years 2024 and thereafter, provided that an additional total of twenty million dollars in credits may be certified for calendar years 2020 through 2023, but may be claimed only for taxable year 2023, and provided that taxpayers who install an eligible solar system on a property held by that taxpayer in leasehold from a federally recognized Indian nation, tribe or pueblo will be eligible for the tax credit; in Subsection A, after "owned by that taxpayer", added "or by a federally recognized Indian nation, tribe or pueblo and held in leasehold by that taxpayer"; in Subsection E, added "Subject to the limitation provided in Subsection F of this section", after "prescribed by that department", deleted "The aggregate amount of credits that may be certified as eligible in any calendar year is twelve million dollars $(\$12,000,000$ ", and after "in the order received", deleted "Applications for certification received after this limitation has been met in a calendar year shall not be approved."; added a new Subsection F and redesignated former Subsections F through L as Subsections G through M, respectively; and in Subsection G, added "provided that, for a taxpayer who receives a certificate of eligibility pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Subsection F of this section, the taxpayer shall apply to the department within twelve months following the calendar year in which the certification is made".  

The 2022 amendment, effective May 18, 2022, extended the sunset on the new solar market development income tax credit, increased the aggregate amount of credits that may be certified as eligible in a calendar year, provided that the new solar market development income tax credit is transferable, and provided that the portion of a new solar market development income tax credit that exceeds a taxpayer's liability in the taxable year in which the credit is claimed shall be refunded to the taxpayer rather than carried over for five years; in Subsection A, after "For taxable years prior to January 1", changed "2028" to $"2032"$ ; in Subsection E, changed "eight million dollars $(\$8,000,000$ to "twelve million dollars $(\$12,000,000)"$ , and added "A certificate of eligibility for a new solar market development income tax credit may be sold, exchanged or otherwise transferred to another taxpayer for the full value of the credit.  The parties to such a transaction shall notify the department of the sale, exchange or transfer within ten day of the sale, exchange or transfer."; and in Subsection G, after "taxable year in which the credit is claimed", deleted "may be carried forward for a maximum of five consecutive taxable years" and added "shall be refunded to the taxpayer".  

Applicability. — Laws 2022, ch. 47, $\$16$ provided that the provisions of Laws 2022, ch. 47, $\S8$ apply to the purchase and installation of a solar thermal system or a photovoltaic system in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2022.  

# 7-2-18.32. 2021 sustainable building tax credit.  

A. The tax credit provided by this section may be referred to as the "2021 sustainable building tax credit".  For taxable years prior to January 1, 2028, a taxpayer who is a building owner and files an income tax return is eligible to be granted a 2021 sustainable building tax credit by the department if the requirements of this section are met.  The 2021 sustainable building tax credit shall be available for the construction in New Mexico of a sustainable building, the renovation of an existing building in New Mexico, the permanent installation of manufactured housing, regardless of where the housing is manufactured, that is a sustainable building or the installation of energyconserving products to existing buildings in New Mexico, as provided in this section. The tax credit provided in this section may not be claimed with respect to the same sustainable building for which the 2021 sustainable building tax credit provided in the Corporate Income and Franchise Tax Act [Chapter 7, Article 2A NMSA 1978] or the 2015 sustainable building tax credit pursuant to the Income Tax Act or the Corporate Income and Franchise Tax Act has been claimed.  

B. The amount of a 2021 sustainable building tax credit shall be determined as follows:  

(1) for the construction of a new sustainable commercial building that is broadband ready and electric vehicle ready and is completed on or after January 1, 2022, the amount of credit shall be calculated:  

(a) based on the certification level the building has achieved in the rating level and the amount of qualified occupied square footage in the building, as indicated on the following chart:  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Rating Level</td><td>Qualified Occupied</td><td>Tax Credit per Square</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">LEED-NC Platinum</td><td>SquareFootage</td><td>Foot</td></tr><tr><td>First 10,000</td><td>$5.25</td></tr><tr><td>Next 40,000 Over 50,000</td><td>$2.25</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="4">LEED-EBorCSPlatinum</td><td>up to 200,000</td><td>$1.00</td></tr><tr><td>First 10,000</td><td>$3.40</td></tr><tr><td>Next 40,000</td><td>$1.30</td></tr><tr><td>Over 50,000</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">LEED-CIPlatinum</td><td>up to 200,000</td><td>$0.35</td></tr><tr><td>First 10,000</td><td>$1.50</td></tr><tr><td>Next40,000</td><td>$0.40</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Over 50,000</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  