# Program Terms and Conditions Acknowledgment  

Together, we make good happen for Massachusetts: Berkshire Gas, Cape Light Compact, Eversource, Liberty, National Grid, and Unitil. As one, we form Mass Save®, with the common goal of helping residents and businesses across Massachusetts save money and energy, leading our state to a clean and energy efficient future.  

Participants applying for Mass Save Residential New Construction Low-Rise incentives through a HERS rater are subject to the program terms and conditions identified below. By signing this document, the participant acknowledges and agrees to comply with these terms and conditions. HERS raters are required to obtain a signed copy of this form prior to applying to the program.  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Participant Signature N55</td><td>Date</td></tr><tr><td>ParticipantName</td><td>ParticipantEmail</td><td>Phone</td></tr><tr><td>HERSRaterCompany</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">IncentiveRecipientName</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">IncentiveRecipientAddress</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Program Terms and Conditions  

# 2025 Eligibility Requirements  

Homes must be individually metered, electric customers of the Sponsors. Multi-family units sharing a master-metered primary heating system are eligible for participation under the High-Rise Path guidelines.  

Homes with 1-4 dwelling units must utilize all-electric equipment for space conditioning, water heating, oven/range, and clothes drying. No fossil fuel combustion equipment is allowed in the home.  

Multi-family buildings with 5 or more dwelling units must utilize all-electric equipment for space conditioning, oven/range, and clothes drying but will be permitted to utilize fossil fuel-fired domestic hot water heating equipment, though no incentives will be tied to this equipment.  

The use of propane amenities like fireplaces, fire pits, and emergency generators is allowed by the program but participants should verify applicable guidelines if pursuing ENERGY STAR® or Passive House certification.  

Single family and multi-family designations are as follows:  

- Single-family homes are defined as a single-family detached house or each unit of one standalone 2- to 4-unit attached building. -Developments/projects that consist of multiple single-family detached homes qualify as single-family units. -Buildings with five or more units are considered multi-family units.  

The following homes are eligible to participate in the program:  

- Single-family homes, - Units in multi-family buildings with three stories or less, - Units in multi-family buildings with 4 stories and $\mathtt{s}{\mathtt{3}}0$ units, and - Units in mixed-use buildings with three stories or less that are located on top of commercial spaces (e.g., retail, restaurant), even if the structure is permitted as commercial.  

All homes must achieve a minimum of $15\%$ savings above the Massachusetts User Defined Reference Home that is in effect at the time that a project is submitted, as evidenced by a program-approved Rating Software file.  

Projects must generate positive electric savings.  

Air Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI) equipment numbers must be reported for all heating and cooling systems. Program participants should ask their contractors for AHRI certification numbers on the systems they install and provide that information to their HERS rater. If an AHRI certificate is not available, a copy of OEM-provided catalog data indicating acceptable combination selection and performance data will be accepted.  

•	 All heating and cooling equipment must be sized according to the latest editions of the ACCA Manuals J and S, the 2013 ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals, or an equivalent computation procedure. The maximum oversizing limit is $15\%$ for air conditioners and $25\%$ for heat pumps. Cooling systems with variable speed compressors are exempt from this requirement.  

Air source heat pump equipment must be installed by a Mass Save HPIN contractor. Air source heat hump equipment must also be listed on the Mass Save Heat Pump Qualified Products List (HPQPL) or certified to ENERGY STAR® 6.1 Cold-Climate Specification.  

•	 A Thermal Expansion Valve or Electronic Expansion Valve is recommended on all cooling systems. All homes must have at least one of the following program-outlined mechanical ventilation devices: - One bath fan rated for continuous use at $<1$ sone and controlled by a 24-hour programmable timer, - One whole-house mechanical ventilation system (includes an ERV or HRV), - A balanced supply and exhaust system without heat recovery, or - A multi-port exhaust-only system with a remote mounted fan.  

Mechanical ventilation specifications include:  

-Homes must fully comply with all sections of R4O3.6 of the Massachusetts Residential Code that is in effect on the permit date of the project, which amends the International Energy Conservation Code. The intended design average measured flow rate (as installed) shall equal the design flow rate, as calculated using any of the approved calculation methods.  

- Supply and exhaust-only ventilation systems must not utilize an intake duct to the return side of the HVAC system unless the system is designed to operate intermittently and automatically based on a timer and to restrict outdoor air intake when not in use (e.g., motorized damper). - HERS raters are required to report fan wattage ratings from the manufacturer listed wattage rating; conversions of fan voltage or amperage rating are not acceptable.   
Envelope leakage must be determined by a program-approved RESNET-certified HERS rater using a RESNET approved testing protocol.   
Appliances (refrigerator and dishwasher) are most efficient when they are ENERGY STAR® qualified. -Homes must be compliant with sections 2 and 4 of the Environmental Protection Agency’s National Rater Field Checklist for ENERGY STAR Certified Homes, Version $3/3.1$ (Rev. 10).,  

# 2025 Single Family (1-4 unit) ENERGY STAR NextGen Eligibility Requirements  

Homes seeking to qualify for the ENERGY STAR NextGen incentive tier must:  

Be certified by a RESNET-certified and program-approved HERS rating company to have met the requirements of ENERGY STAR SF $\vee\overline{{\mathcal{S}\mathcal{L}}}$ or ENERGY STAR MF v1.2, in addition to NextGen certification.  

Achieve $230\%$ savings above the MA User Defined Reference Home (UDRH) baseline that is in effect at the time the project is registered; OR, must achieve a HERS Index Score of ${\tt s45}$ . Percent savings above baseline and HERS Index Score must be verified by a program-approved Rating Software file.  

Meet a minimum envelope leakage rate of $<1.5$ ACH50 as tested and verified by an approved HERS rating company using testing protocols in compliance with the current RESNET standards.  

Have balanced mechanical ventilation that utilizes either a Heat Recovery Ventilator (HRV) or Energy Recovery Ventilator (ERV).  

Have an EV-ready space installed to the requirements in 225 CMR 22: MA Residential Stretch Energy Code and Municipal Opt-In Specialized Code 2023 section R404.4 EV-ready Parking Space Requirements.  

# 2025 Single Family (1-4 unit) Passive House Eligibility Requirements  

Homes seeking to qualify for the Passive House incentive tier must:  

•	 Be registered to the program by a RESNET-certified and program-approved HERS rating company. Meet the Passive House certification requirements of either Phius or PHI, and submit documentation to verify compliance with R405.2 or R405.3 of 225 CMR Chapter 22 MA Stretch Code and Specialized Code for Low Rise Residential.  

Have an EV-ready space installed to the requirements in 225 CMR 22: MA Residential Stretch Energy Code and Municipal Opt-In Specialized Code 2023 section R404.4 EV-ready Parking Space Requirements.  

# 2025 Low-Rise Multi-Family $\cdot5+$ unit) ENERGY STAR Eligibility Requirements  

Multi-family buildings seeking to qualify for the ENERGY STAR incentive tier must:  

•	 Be certified by a RESNET-certified and program-approved HERS rating company to have met the requirements of ENERGY STAR MF v1.2.   
Achieve $215\%$ savings above the MA User Defined Reference Home (UDRH) baseline that is in effect at the time the project is registered; OR, must achieve a HERS Index Score of $\mathtt{s45}$ . Percent savings above baseline and HERS Index Score must be verified by a program-approved Rating Software file. Buildings with $>50$ units may be subject to registration pre-approval and may have Market Transformation Adders capped at $\$100,000$ total per building.  

# Incentive Guidelines  

The submission of this Application does not guarantee receipt of incentives. Written approval from the Sponsors of Mass Save will state the incentives awarded. Incentives will not be paid prior to home testing and verification.  

The incentives awarded are to assist in the defrayment of Rater costs to the applicant and help cover some of the incremental costs, if applicable. The applicant may need to contribute to the construction costs to meet the Mass Save-defined performance requirements. Sponsors pay the HERS rating company a fixed certification incentive for verifying that a home meets the performance requirements. Any certification fee balance is the sole responsibility of the Participant and should be paid directly to the HERS rating company.  

Incentive payments are directly tied to a home’s modeled energy performance. Any changes to the design or specifications of the home may result in a reduction or loss of incentive(s).  

The final incentive will be paid to the incentive recipient name and address listed on this form. In the event of a change in recipient, it is the responsibility of the HERS rating company to notify the program.  

If the incentive recipient is not the property owner, then the incentive recipient listed on this form attests that the property owner is informed and has agreed to the incentive payment being made to the name listed on this form.  

Participating homes must be located in a service territory of one of the participating Sponsors as evidenced by town, ZIP code, and, ultimately, a permanent electric and/or gas meter number.  

Incentives associated with this Agreement are paid for by the sponsoring electric utility or energy efficiency service provider.  

Homes serviced by a municipal electric company are not eligible to participate.  

•	 SPONSORS, THEIR AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES DO NOT WARRANT THE PERFORMANCE OF INSTALLED OR SERVICED EQUIPMENT EXPRESSLY OR IMPLICITLY. Sponsors make no warranties or representation of any kind, whether statutory, expressed, or implied, including without limitations, warranties, or merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose regarding the HVAC equipment or services provided by a manufacturer or vendor. Contact your contractor for details regarding equipment performance or warranties.  

# Additional Information  

Projects remain active for 24 months. If no inspections are reported after 24 months, the project will be deemed “Inactive” and the Rater/Participant will be notified that they will need to reapply.  

Prior to any payment of incentives, ICF reserves the right to verify the completion of homes to the level of the requested incentive. The Participant is responsible for any applicable permits as required by building codes/laws. A sampling of completed homes will be selected by ICF for a quality control inspection. No warranty or compliance to Massachusetts building code is implied by this inspection.  

The required home information and supporting documentation must be submitted via the Online Intake Tool and must be in compliance with the terms and conditions, in order to receive incentive payment. Invoices submitted in a given month will be processed during the following month.  

In order for a project to be labeled as ENERGY STAR, all minimum national ENERGY STAR guidelines must be met. Meeting the Mass Save Residential Low-Rise New Construction requirements does not guarantee the home will meet national ENERGY STAR guidelines.  

Participation in Mass Save Residential Low-Rise New Construction is voluntary on behalf of the Sponsors and the applicants. The Sponsors have the right to change or modify the existing program at any time. The Sponsors, their agents, and employees are indemnified against all loss, damage, expense, and liability resulting from injury to or death of persons, and against all injury to property arising out of or in any way connected with the performance of this Agreement.  

The Energy Efficiency Program Provider (EEPP) is entitled to $100\%$ of the energy benefits associated with the Energy Cost Measure, excluding the value of energy cost savings realized by the customer, but including all rights to all associated ISO-NE Energy Capacity and Reserves Products, and the customer agrees to provide the EEPP with such further documentation as the EEPP may request to confirm the EEPP’s ownership of such benefits and products.  

The Sponsors of Mass Save and ICF are both limited in their liability to paying the applicable incentive only, and NEITHER THE SPONSORS, NOR ICF, ARE LIABLE FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR FOR ANY DAMAGES IN TORT CONNECTED WITH OR RESULTING FROM PARTICIPATION INCLUDING ANY DAMAGES RELATING TO SAFETY, HEALTH OR WELLBEING.  

•	 SPONSORS, THEIR AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES DO NOT PROVIDE warranties regarding safety, health, or wellbeing.  

Participants voluntarily agree not to hold the Sponsors, ICF, or their respective affiliates, directors, officers, employees, agents, or contractors liable for any illness or injury.  

HERS Raters have the right to refuse service or end the delivery when confronted by a customer acting inappropriately or when facing a situation deemed potentially unsafe or harmful to health or wellbeing. “Inappropriate” includes but is not limited to the following: unreasonable demands for service, personally threatening or offensive language, threatening or erratic behavior and personal contact. HERS Raters reserve the right to exclude any premises, or vicinity therein, deemed potentially unsafe or harmful to health or wellbeing.  

# Ready to get started? We are here to help:  

1-866-527-SAVE (7283)  •  ResNewConstructionMA@icf.com MassSave.com/MultiFamilyNewConstruction  